Pathogenicity of Candida species identified in denture  after the use of cleansers solutions
Expression of virulence genes and virulence factors of Candida species identified in dentures biofilm after using cleansers solutions.
All patients receive the same cleaning protocol to the palate and denture, differing only the solutions among the groups, during 37 days.

Stratum 1 (4 groups): healthy patients: Control group: 15 Total edentulous healthy patients with denture stomatitis that will hold the cleaning protocol with immersion in saline. Experimental group HS0,25%: 15 total edentulous healthy patients with denture stomatitis that will hold the cleaning protocol with immersion in sodium hypochlorite 0.25%. Experimental group RC10%: 15 patients healthy with total edentulous denture stomatitis that hold the immersion with cleaning protocol in Ricinus communis 10%. Experimental group CT0,5%: 15 total edentulous healthy patients with denture stomatitis that will hold the cleaning protocol with immersion Chloramine T to 0.5%.
Patients with stomatitis Prosthetics; use of conventional dentures; base and artificial teeth in acrylic resin; at least use time one year; appropriate conditions of prostheses; presence of biofilm on the inner surface of the prosthesis.
Prostheses with problems in adaptation; reline; repair or fractures; Use of antifungals; antibiotics or steroids in the past 3 months; anemia; immunosuppression or cancer therapy; other immunosuppressive diseases.
Assess the virulence factors of different Candida species present in the denture and palate after using denture cleansers for soaking dentures. the samples positive are selected for evaluation of virulence factors: adhesion capacity on the heat acrylic resin by epifluorescence microscopy and viability of the biofilm formation using the XTT method and microbial / counting culture; Proteinase activity and phospholipase by employing specific kits for such formation of hyphae, and a specific culture media and inducing medium.
Comparison between healthy and diabetic patients type II, both with stomatitis using the Candida strains isolated in vivo for analysis of experimental solutions used in baseline, seven and thirty days. The analysis will be performed by means of test results of virulence factors
Analysis of the effects of vocal training through breath exercises with sound in tube and straw in choir singers
Analysis of the effects of vocal conditioning through semi-occluded vocal tract exercises in choir singers
Experimental group 1: 20 individuals of Coral UFCSPA without voice problems carry out the exercise with Finnish tube before choir practice once a week for a period of 14 weeks. The exercise will be carried out with blowing set to sound at regular frequency, with frequency variation and with the melody of 
Age between 18 and 60; score in Voice Sympton Scale (VoiSS) equal to or less than 16; signing of the Informed Consent (IC).
Voice disorders diagnosed by otolaryngologist physician; smokers; presence below 75% in the meetings.
Improved singing voice quality standard demonstrated by the perceptual analysis of voice with CAPE- V, in which there is a decrease in score value pre and post intervention.
Improvement of acoustic parameters (mean fundamental frequency, jitter, shimmer, GNE), demonstrated by VoxMetria software. Improved profile vocal range, shown by Vocalgrama software. Improvement of maximum phonation time, demonstrated by measuring the maximum times of sustaining vowels and phonemes /s/ and /z/.
Effect of a pharmacotherapeutic management protocol in patients hospitalized with cardiovascular diseases
Improving Medication Adherence and Clinical Outcomes Following Hospitalization in Chronic Cardiovascular Disease
We have developed our intervention based on four-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS-4), which has been shown to be predictive of adherence to cardiovascular medications and blood pressure control, aiming to prevent both intentional and unintentional non-adherence behaviour (INAB and UNAB respectively). This protocol consists
of 2 distinct parts: patient-centered verbal instructions (to prevent INAB) and written material about prescribed medications (to prevent UNAB).
Aiming maximum inclusiveness we recruited all patients who had a discharge diagnosis
of CVD and who were on antihypertensive medication.
Patients were excluded if they reported already using any tool to improve their adherence.
Medication adherence was assessed by phone call with the eight-item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS-8). Medication adherence was assessed at 1 month post hospital discharge and re-assessed 1 year after hospital discharge. The study was closed 12 months after the last patient had been discharged. Patients who had been readmitted to the study site hospital during the 12-month follow-up period did not receive the intervention again.
Readmission and mortality rates  1 year after their inclusion in study, consenting participants were asked to report the number of hospitalizations related to cardiovascular diseases in the study year via phone call. Deaths were confirmed via death certificate.
Influence of resveratrol (grappe seed extract) on heart beats at rest and during exercise in adults with hypertension. 
Effects of resveratrol supplementation on heart rate variability in adults with hypertension
Experimental group: 20 adults with hypertension will take the resveratrol capsules (100 mg) in the morning for 30 days (1 time/day). Control group: 20 adults with hypertension will take the placebo capsules (100 mg of cellulose) in the morning for 30 days (1 time/day)
Adults of both genders, aged between 35-70, with hypertension.

No additional orthopedic deficiencies impairing ambulation
Uncontrolled high blood pressure 
An increase of at least 10% in heart rate variability, verified by heart monitor, in measurements pre and post 30 days of resveratrol supplementation  
A reduction of at least 3% in total body fat, verified by tetrapolar electrical bioimpedance, in measurements pre and post 30 days resveratrol supplementation  
Effects lasertherapy on physical exercise in elderly women.
Effects of low-level laser therapy on isokinetic muscle performance in elderly women.
Volunteers will be randomly allocated to Control Group: 26 women no submitted to muscle strength and laser, Active Laser Group: 26 women to muscle strength associated with active laser in final session and Placebo Laser Group: 26 women to muscle strength associated with placebo laser in final session. All participants, except those included in the control group, will be submitted to the strength muscle program and active laser therapy or placebo interventions for 8 weeks. The training program will consist of 2 sets of 15 repetitions knee flexion-extension performed with a load corresponding to 60% of 1- Maximum Repetition during the first two weeks and 3 sets of 15 repetitions with 80% of 1- Maximum Repetition during six weeks. The Laser will be applied on the quadriceps femoris of dominant lower limb immediately after each training session. Active Laser (808 nm wavelength, 100 mW, energy 7.0 J per point, energy density 250J/cm ², the total energy of 56 J and time per point 1 minute and 10 seconds) or an identical Placebo Laser (without irradiation) will be used in Active Laser Group and Placebo Laser Group respectively. Irradiation will be applied in direct contact with the skin.
Females; age between 60 to 70 years old; full active range of motion and no pain in the hip, knee and ankle; body mass index between 18 to 27kg/cm ²,  taking into account height and weight; active or irregularly active, second International Physical Activity Questionnaire short version.
Pain in the spine or lower limbs;  history of trauma or previous surgery in the lower limbs or spine; history of muscle injury the femoral quadriceps, coxofemoral subluxation of the joint; osteoarthritis of the hip and or knee; rheumatic, degenerative or neurological diseases;  fibromyalgia; hypertension and uncontrolled diabetes mellitus.
Increased muscle strength in both trained groups, by increasing the load values, based on the value of 1 repetition maximum, after the training program. Being statistical significance in the group irradiated with active laser.
Increased muscle performance by reducing fatigue index and increased torque, total work and power variables of the extensor muscles of the dominant member knee in groups submitted to muscle strengthening. Being statistically lower for the index of fatigue and increased paw torque, total work and average power in the group irradiated with active laser.
A Prospective Single Arm, Open-label, International, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Safety, Efficacy and Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir (ATV) Powder Boosted with Ritonavir (RTV) Liquid with an Optimized NRTI Background Therapy, in HIV Infected Pediatric Patients Greater Than or Equal to 3 Months to Less Than 6 Years. (Pediatric Atazanavir International Clinical Evaluation: the PRINCE I study)
A Prospective Single Arm, Open-label, International, Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Safety, Efficacy and Pharmacokinetics of Atazanavir (ATV) Powder Boosted with Ritonavir (RTV) Liquid with an Optimized NRTI Background Therapy, in HIV Infected Pediatric Patients Greater Than or Equal to 3 Months to Less Than 6 Years. (Pediatric Atazanavir International Clinical Evaluation: the PRINCE I study)
Drug: Atazanavir - Powder, Oral, Dosed by weight (5-10 kg = 150 mg, 10-15 kg = 200 mg, 15-20 kg = 250 mg), Once per day, 48 weeks or until a local pediatric ATV approval. Other Names: Reyataz and BMS-232632. Drug: Ritonavir - Oral Solution, Oral, 80 mg/mL, Once per day, 48 weeks or until a local pediatric ATV approval. Other Name: Norvir.
HIV 1 infection diagnosed by protocol criteria. 
Experienced subjects who received ATV or ATV/RTV at any time prior to study enrollment or who have prior history of 2 or more PI failures. Antiretroviral-naïve or experienced HIV-1 infected patients with contraindication to study medications. Family history of QTc interval syndrome, Brugada syndrome or right ventricular dysplasia or with a corrected QTc interval at screening of 
The frequency and severity of adverse events, serious adverse events (clinical and laboratory) and discontinuations from study due to adverse events [Time Frame: 48 Weeks].
Evidence of Viral Load confirmed by HIV-RNA testing [Time Frame: 48 Weeks]. 
Effectiveness of Pilates and ingestion of Green Tea in elderly patients who have Metabolic Syndrome
Effectiveness of the Pilates method and the supplementation with Green Tea (Camelia Sinensis) in the biochemical, oxidative markers, antioxidant status levels and in gene expression in elderly patients with Metabolic Syndrome - clinical trial randomized double blind
Control group: 35 elderly women with metabolic syndrome wil receive placebo capsules (500mg). Should intake a placebo capsule once a day one hour before or one hour after the main meal of the day for 24 weeks. Experimental group green tea: 35 elderly women with metabolic syndrome will receive capsules of green tea extract (500mg) should intake a capsule of green tea extract once a day one hour before or one hour after the main meal of the day for 24 weeks. Experimental group pilates and placebo : 35 elderly women with metabolic syndrome will receive placebo capsules (500mg) plus training with pilates. Should inatke a placebo capsule once a day one hour before or one hour after the main meal of the day for 24 weeks and training with pilates will be held twice a week for 60 minutes for a well trained professional for 24 weeks . Experimental group pilates and green tea: 35 elderly women with metabolic syndrome will receive capsules of green tea extract (500mg) plus training with pilates. Should inatke a capsule of green tea extract once a day one hour before or one hour after the main meal of the day for 24 weeks and training with pilates will be held twice a week for 60 minutes by a professional well trained by 24 weeks.
Aged over 60 years; female; have metabolic syndrome.
Have cardiovascular disease; have liver disease; gastric disease; thyroid problems; memory problems; anxiety and sleep disorders;have physical problems that preclude training with pilates;have done in the past or is doing pilates or other form of physical exercise on a regular way; intake green tea by regular or habitual way.
Reduction of 9.0 cm (10%), abdominal circumference, based on previous studies of our research group found that an average of 99.0 with a standard deviation of 12.8 cm in waist circumference in a sample of elderly patients with syndrome metabolic
increase of 20% (0.53) in the expression of the SOD2 gene based on an average of 2.65 standard deviation of 0.28
Reduction in blood pressure after cycle ergometer exercise and its physiological regulators: influence of time and association with hormone variation.

Post-Aerobic Exercise Hypotension and its Hemodynamic and Neural Mechanisms in Pre-Hypertensives: influence of time and association with circadian endocrine regulation.
A single group of pre-hypertensive subjects will undergo 4 experimental sessions: one with exercise (cycle ergometer, 45min, 50% of VO2peak)conducted in the morning (9am), one with exercise (cycle ergometer, 45min, 50% of VO2peak)conducted in the evening (6:30 pm), one without exercise (control - sitting rest) conducted in the morning (9 am) and one without exercise (sitting resting) conducted in the evening (6:30 pm). The order of the execution of these sessions will be randomized for each subject. An interval of at least 48 hours will be garanteed between the sessions.
Men
Aged between 20 and 40 years 
Body Mass Index of equal to or greater than 30kg/m2
Subjects with cardiac diseases (previous diganosis or elatered rest or exercise ECG)
Postexercise hypotension - evaluated by the measurement of clinic (auscultatory) and ambulatory (oscillometric) blood pressure before and after rest and aerobic exercise performed in the morning and evening. 
Circadian endocrine regulation - evaluated by plasma levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine, angiotensin II, and vasopressin, besides the urinary melatonin metabolite 6-sulfatoxymelathonin. 
Influence of an exercise session and a period of physical training on the cardiovascular system of patients with intermittent claudication
Acute and Chronic Cardiovascular Responses to Exercise in Subjects with Intermittent Claudication
Randomized groups: control and training.
Control: Stretching, 2x/week, 30 min/day, 12 weeks
Men
Aged between 50 and 80 years
Presence of complex arrhythmias and/or ischemia during exercise
Fasting glycemia greater than 250mg/dl
Vascular function - evaluated by the measurement of baseline blood flow and its response to the reactive hyperemia maneuver (venous occlusion pletismography) performed before and after acute session (control or walking) and at the beginning and end of training.  
Exercise capacity - evaluated by an maximal treadmill exercise test, achieving peak oxygen uptake, initial claudication distance, and total walking distance
Effect of strength training in older depressed
Effect of strength training in older depressed
Aerobic Training: 15 depressive patients of both sexes will add to its pharmacological treatment a routine of aerobic exercise on stationary bikes or treadmills. The intervention protocol is to perform five minute warm up, followed by 20 continuous minutes at an intensity of 70% of maximum heart rate, 5 more minutes of deceleration. The frequency will be about two times per week.
Strength Training: 15 depressive patients of both sexes will add to its pharmacological treatment a routine physical strength exercises for the major muscle groups: chest, back, quadriceps and hamstrings on specific machines. The intervention protocol is to perform three sets of eight to 12 repetitions on each machine with the capacity of 70% predicted maximum force. The frequency will be about two times per week.
Right-handed; sedentary for more than three months; performing more than one month pharmacological treatment; clinical diagnosis using the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 4th Edition (DSM-IV).
Score over 18 points on the Hamilton Depression Scale; Score under 24 points in the Mini - Mental State Examination; Psychiatric comorbidities; neurodegenerative disease; severe cardiovascular disease; illiteracy; poor mobility; balance disorders; visual and / or auditory sharp.
Reducing depressive symptoms at six months, verified by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and the Beck Depression Inventory, evidenced from the reduction of 50% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Neurophysiological improvement in six months, verified through non-invasive electroencephalographic measures, from the observation of a modification of cortical electrical pattern found between pre and post.
Strength training effects with elastic tubes on muscle strength, functional capacity, inflammation and quality of life of apparently healthy individuals
Strength training effects with elastic tubing in the functional, biological variables and quality of life of apparently healthy individuals

Resistance training with tubing (cords) elastic: 10 individuals will be submitted to resistance training (strength) three times a week elastic tubing, with rest interval between 24 to 72 hours. The sessions will last 60 minutes and at beginning global stretches will be realized. The vital signs will be checked at the beginning, during and at the end of the sessions. The training will run periodized and progressively. The distribution driving dynamics of training will be as follows: 1st to 3rd week: 2x15 RM; 4th to 6th week: 3x15 RM; 7th to 9th week: 3x10 RM; 10th to 12th week: 4x6 RM.The training will last three months
Conventional resistance training (Weight Training): 10 subjects will be submitted to resistance training (strength) on weight machines three times a week, with rest interval between 24 to 72 hours. The sessions will last 60 minutes and at beginning global stretches will be realized.The vital signs will be checked at the beginning, during and at the end of the sessions. The training will run periodized and progressively. The distribution driving dynamics of training will be as follows: 1st to 3rd week: 2x15 RM; 4th to 6th week: 3x15 RM; 7th to 9th week: 3x10 RM; 10th to 12th week: 4x6 RM. The training will last three months.
Adults between 45 and 80 years;both genders; insufficiently active.
Clinical instability; cardiac disorders, musculoskeletal, neurological, pulmonary dysfunction, irregularity in the frequency of the sessions, refusal to sign the consent form, dependence tobacco.
Improved strength evaluated by digital dynamometer (strength test) after 6 and 12 weeks of intervention in both protocols of resistance training.  Improved functional capacity measured by six-minute walk test after 6 and 12 weeks of intervention in both protocols of resistance training.
Improvement in quality of life assessed by quality of life questionnaire SF-36 after 6 and 12 weeks in both protocols of resistance training.  Lower muscle stress levels assessed by determining blood levels of creatine kinase (CK) by Reflotron machine in the training group with elastic tubing compared to weight training group after 12 weeks of training.  Lower systemic inflammation levels measured by determining the levels of blood inflammatory cells in the training group with elastic tubing compared to weight training group after 12 weeks of training.
The Brief Intervention to alcohol related disorders on university servers
Effects of Brief Intervention (BI) to alcohol related disorders on university servers: a quantitative and qualitative analysis
After application of AUDIT (Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test), people who are scored in the use of risk or harmful will be randomized through a randomization list for two groups: Experimental (BI) and Control (Feedback and pamphlets).

Experimental Group: 50 participants who scored in the use of risk or harmful in the AUDIT instrument will be submitted to Brief Intervention (BI) for the prevention of alcohol use. This intervention will be from 45 to 60 minutes applied only once. This intervention has the principles of FRAMES (Feedback, Responsibility, Advices, Menu of options, Empathy, Self-efficacy), recommended as a tool for the prevention of alcohol use by the World Health Organization (WHO). These principles include the feedback AUDIT screening tool, the patient commitment to face a change, warnings about the consequences of alcohol use, the menu options for the individual to diminish consumption, empathy and self-efficacy. The individual will also receive a pamphlet about the use of alcohol for reading later on.
IT will be included in the study individuals who are over 18, university servers, who accept taking part of it and signing the Agreement and Informed Consentment.
It will defined as non-inclusion criteria for this study people who use other drugs besides than alcohol and tobacco, university professors, outsourced employees who have no permanent position in the institution and individuals unable to answer the questionnaire at the time of reserch application. These individuals will be invited to participate in the survey but they will excluded for data analysis.
To analyze what are the effects of BI it will be used the number of alcohol doses consumed before and after the interventions, this outcome it will be measured by the question 02 AUDIT (Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test) instrument. The reduction shall be considered significant if present 20% reduction in doses of alcohol consumed before and after treatment. The frequency of consumption will be measured by the question 01 AUDIT. The frequency  reduction shall be considered significant If it happens 20% variation pre and post treatment. The alcohol pattern use that will be measured by the AUDIT. For change in the pattern of consumption, the participant must score between 0-7 points on the AUDIT at follow up. 
It will be considered Secondary outcomes:    The readiness for changing drinking behavior will be measured by the Readiness Ruler for changing. The rule consists of a numerical scale from 0 to 10 points. The significant variation considered will be 10% before and after treatment. The AUDIT (Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test) issues will also be used for analysis taking into account that this instrument details with a lot of accuracy the alcohol consume. . The significant variation considered for each question examined will be 20% before and after treatment. 
Association between facial types, orofacial pain and mastication
Association between craniofacial morphology, temporomandibular disorders, bite force, masticatory performance and chewing ability
This study will consist of a sample of 200 individuals, aged 18-45 years, without gender distinction, which will be divided into two groups: 

Experimental group: will be composed of 100 individuals, which will be evaluated by the Axis I RDC / TMD for the diagnosis of temporomandibular disorders. 
Experimental group: volunteers with TMD, established through the application of the RDC / TMD; both genders; aged between 18 and 45 years; complete permanent dentition (optional presence of third molars) and no more than a missing premolar in the quadrant. For the control group the inclusion criteria are the same, except the presence of TMD.
Subjects presenting history of oral and maxillofacial surgery, facial trauma to the jaw, orthodontic treatment in less than two years, bone disease or neuromuscular facial malformations, severe malocclusion (anterior open bite, unilateral or bilateral posterior crossbite), parafunction habits, facial deformities, or pregnant patients were excluded.
In respect of craniofacial morphology is expected to find the prevalence of a facial type in experimental (100 TMD patients) and control (100 subjects without TMD) groups. The craniofacial morphology will be determined from cephalometric analysis after obtaining conventional lateral radiographs and individuals may present three facial types: brachyfacial, mesofacial and dolichofacial.
 It is expected that the presence of painful symptoms influence the masticatory function in individuals with different facial types. The masticatory function in patients which have pain in the temporomandibular joint and / or masticatory muscles will be evaluated through masticatory performance (by the chewing of chewable test material samples  and analysis by the sieves method) and the maximum bite force (by the bilateral pressure sensors installed in the molar region,) and the masticatory ability by a questionnaire form.
Effects of the elastic bandage on the symptoms of medial tibial stress syndrome in runners
Effects of the elastic bandage on the symptoms of medial tibial stress syndrome in runners
Experimental group: 30 participants will receive the application of elastic bandage on the anterior leg and this will be maintained during a run training session.
Control group: 30 participants will receive a placebo application of elastic bandage
Sixty athletes that run during their training; the run training occurs at least three times a week; presence of the medial tibial stress syndrome induced by sports practice for at least six weeks and pain on palpation in the distal posteromedial border of the tibia.
Suspicion of tibial stress fracture or compartment syndrome; history of surgery in lower limbs or tibia fracture; paresthesia; other conditions that cause pain in the leg or presence concurrent pain; such as pain in the knee or ankle sprains.
Pain reduction in the leg after a race training session assessed by visual analog scale, pressure algometer, McGill questionnaire and numerical pain scale; Maintenance of ankle dorsal and plantar range of motion after a race training session measured in weight bearing positions. Maintenance of plant arc after a race training session measured by the navicular drop test. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Safety assessment and dose of fibrin sealant derived from snake venom in the treatment of wounds.
Clinical trial phase I / II to evaluate the safety and best dose of the new fibrin sealant derived from snake venom in the treatment of venous ulcers - Study SELANTE I.
Single group: 10 subjects with chronic venous ulcers from the Clinic of Chronic Ulcers Department of Dermatology, Botucatu Medical School who receive weekly dressings for 3 months with topical fibrin sealant in sufficient quantity to cover the entire ulcerated area, after topical fatty acid soaked gauze to cover in the same ulcerated area and ending with Unna´s boot bandage.
Sign the term of free and informed consent; patients 18 years of age or older, of both sexes; chronic venous disease with chronic venous ulcers evidenced by one or more of the following signs: hyperpigmentation of the distal third of the lower limb, stasis eczema,  lipodermatosclerosis, varicose veins; one or more ulcers whose time evolution is minimum of 6 weeks and a maximum of 5 years; display the sum of the areas of the ulcers of both members between 5 and 60 square centimeters, at least one ulcer whose major area is above 5 square centimeters; do not use the following drugs in the last two weeks prior to screening: venotonics,  pentoxifylline, fibrinolytic drugs; Available to attend once a week for treatment.
Leg ulcers of other etiologies ( causes hematological , neoplastic , infectious , among others) ; use of anticoagulants ; infected ulcers , or associated with erysipelas , cellulitis or lymphangitis; ulcer with critical colonization , ie ,large amount of exudate and / or foul and / or yellowish staining of the wound bed and / or green and / or red opaque odor and / or friable granulation tissue ; necrosis in the ulcer bed ; devitalized background with ulcer covering all your bed; venous ulcers associated with peripheral arterial disease that is characterized when the systolic ankle-brachial index is less than 0.9 and / or absence of distal pulses; being unable or does not wish to remain with compressive treatment of lower limb for seven days ; known or suspected pregnancy;
The results of laboratory tests did not change with statistical or clinical significance, that is, there were no systemic adverse events detected by these tests. Two participants had flu during the study follow-up, but not related to the investigational product.
Results in relation of Local adverse events: appearance of a new ulcer occurred in 5 participant (50%), 4 ulcers of 3 cases with myiasis (22,2%),3 ulcers of 2 cases with critical colonization (16,6%), , 1 participant showed an increase in your ulcer area (10%), local infection in one participant (10%). This events were not related to the product. Pain was reported by 2 participants in 5 ulcers with probable relationship to the sealant.
Study of balance over 1 year in patients with acquired deafness after  cochlear implantation (CI) 
Sequential study of vestibular function  post cochlear implantation (CI) in postlingually patients
24 postlingually deaf adults undergoing unilateral cochlear implantation (CI).  Vestibular assessment consisting of eletronystagmography and it was performed preoperatively and at 60, 120, 180 days and 1 year after CI. 
Patients with post lingual deafness; bilateral sensorineural hearing loss severe to profound; no benefit with the use of hearing aids or those with indices below 50% in sentence recognition using the best possible bilateral fitting tests.
patients with obliteration of the tympanic cavity; patients with indication for middle fossa surgical approach; orthopedic, neurological or visual disorders that could interfere with the results of the computerized dynamic posturography
The absence of post-caloric response in preoperative evaluation, contacted through caloric and rotatory chair test, resulted in a worse prognosis in the evolution of body balance over 1 year. Having been considered a significance level of 5% (? = 0.05) comparing pre and post IC evaluations.
Cases of dizziness reported before CI and confirmed by clinical evaluation at the end of the study ameliorated in 11 patients (84.6%), worsened in 1 (7.7%)and remained unchanged in 1 (7.7%). 
Effect of clonidine on the target dose of propofol: bispectral index evaluation
Effect of clonidine on the target dose of propofol: bispectral index evaluation
Experimental group: 26 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy or jaw fracture treatment under total intravenous anesthesia. Received 3 mcg / kg of clonidine administered in 100 ml of saline, infused at 10 minutes, 10 minutes before induction of anesthesia. Propofol dose was adjusted based on the value of the bispectral index of 45.
Control group: 25 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy or jaw fracture treatment under total intravenous anesthesia. Received 100 ml of saline, infused at 10 minutes, 10 minutes before induction of anesthesia. Propofol target dose was compared the two groups enter.
Patients ASA I or II.
Scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy or jaw fracture treatment in Cariri Regional Hospital. Signing the consent form.
Drug users who can interfere in the outcomes.
Drug Addicts.
Evidenced outcome: The outcome was evidenced by the reduction in target dose of propofol in the group receiving clonidine at a p <0.001. The reduction in propofol target dose was approximately 50% clonidine. Expected outcome: reduction in propofol target dose in the group using clonidine.
Evidenced outcome: reduction in propofol target dose by approximately 50% in the group using clonidine premedication.
Mandibular moviments evaluation and satisfaction of complete denture wearers after the use of two adhesives.
Electrokinesiographic evaluation and satisfaction of complete denture wearers after the use of two adhesives.
The sample (n=50) will receive a new set of conventional complete dentures and will be submitted to an initial assessment, and then randomly divided in two protocols: protocol 1- use of A1 the first 15 days, followed by not using any type of adhesive (washout) during 15 days, and use of A2 for additional 15 days; protocol 2- use of A2 the first 15 days, followed by not using any type of adhesive (washout) during 15 days, and use of A1 for additional 15 days. Jaw movements (chewing) and maxillary complete denture movement will be evaluated by electrokinesiography and satisfaction index will be assessed by means of a questionnaire.
Adults; mentally agile and responsive; resilience and alveolar volume normal; absence os disfunctions in the stomatognathic system; absence of debiliting systemic changes.
Debilitating neurological os systemic diseases;cardiac pacemaker; need for pre-prosthetic surgery.
Observe the difference in patients satisfaction with and without the use of adhesives, assessed by a questionnaire, in 30 wearers of dentures, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% between the control analysis and after use of adhesives by the participants.
Observe the difference in the three-dimensional movement of the mandible of patients with and without the use of adhesives, evaluated by means of a specific equipment (cinesiograph), in 30 wearers of dentures, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% between control analysis and after use of adhesives by the participants.
Study of lower dentures retained by one or two implants
Mandibular overdentures retained by one or two implants: a randomized clinical trial 
Experimental group: 10 edentulous subjects will be submitted to the installation of 1 implant in the anterior mandible. Control group: 10 edentulous individuals will be submitted to the installation of two implants in the anterior mandible. The treatments will be offered in randomized order. After a period of four months, the denture patients will be attached to the implants.
Adults; full Edentulism in mandible and maxila for at least one year; mentally agile and responsives; sufficient bone height (at least 15 mm)
and bone width (at least 6 mm) in the
History of radiation in head and neck; risk of bacteremia (immuno-suppressed, steroid use, prosthetic heart valves); diabetes type I and II; use of tobacco, drugs or alcohol; cardisc pacemaker.
Observation of difference in satisfaction of denture users  retained by one or two implants, using a questionnaire that evaluates the levels of satisfaction with the dentures, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in the control analysis (1 implant) and experimental (2 implants) at the beginning and end of the study (after 1 year of follow-up).
No secondary outcomes observed to date.
Association of malaria during pregnancy with problems in the development of the fetus in the Brazilian Amazon
Association of gestational malaria with intrauterine growth restriction and low birth weight in the far-western Brazilian Amazon
It is a cohort study composed of 600 pregnant women who will be followed until delivery to check the consequences of malaria during pregnancy. All patients were recruited from the public health system. Three home visits during pregnancy to check maternal and fetal health were conducted. And for pregnant women who experienced episodes of malaria, in addition to three home visits were made additional visits to each infection to collect information. Was formed two groups: 200 pregnant women who did not have episodes of malaria during pregnancy (not infected) and 400 pregnant women who had episodes of malaria in pregnancy (Infected). Women who had malaria were further subdivided into two groups according to the species of the parasite - 200 which had infection with Plasmodium vivax and 200 who had Plasmodium falciparum infection. It is an observational study, no interventions.
Pregnant women; minimum age of 13 years; all parity; any gestational age; who present or not infections by Plasmodium sp. in their gestation period.
Pregnant women smokers; hypertension; diabetes; who had preeclampsia or eclampsia; show hemorrhage due to other diseases; multiple pregnancy; HIV infection.
Reduction of anthropometric measurements of the babies whose mothers who had malaria in pregnancy, verified by tape to check the head circumference and height and digital scale to check the weight at birth from the observation of the increase in the percentage of low birth weight in years occurred malaria epidemic.
Increase in the number of abortions, stillbirths and premature births in pregnant women who had malaria during pregnancy checked for gestational age birth.
Treatment through electrical stimulation and exercises for urinary incontinence
Pelvic floor training in urinary incontinence comparing techniques
treatment by intravaginal electrical stimulation and kinesiotherapy
Participants will be divided into 3 groups, each group of 30 patients: electrical stimulation group (GE) Group Training Pelvic Floor (GT) and control group (CG)
The sessions will be weekly (one session per week), totaling 12 sessions, and the assessments (data collection) will happen before the first and after the twelfth session of treatment. During the 12 weeks in which the GT and GE are being tradados will be asked to GC members who perform daily home exercise perineal contraction and not to start any kind of physical activity or treatment that could interfere with the floor muscle function Pelvic.
Women; with urinary incontinence
Patients with severe lung disease; patients with severe heart disease; patients with neurological diseases; patients with oncological diseases; patients using antidepressant medications in general; patients who have pelvic organ prolapse above the second stage by POP-Q classification; pacemaker users; patients who have undergone surgical intervention for correction of urinary incontinence; patients to initiate any kind of physical activity structured and planned, in addition to those provided for in the protocol
 Average increase of 10% in the electromyographic response of the pelvic muscles' electrical activity, when comparing measurements made before and after the intervention.
Participant's level of satisfaction with the pelvic floor muscle function treatment. 
The effect of electrical stimulation for the treatment of overactive bladder in elderly women
Motor and sensitive response after posterior tibial nerve stimulation in elderly women with overactive bladder syndrome
Experimental group: 20 elderly women with overactive bladder complaints receive the electric current in the posterior tibial nerve in motor form (must observe the bending of the big toe), 2 times a week, with a minimum interval of 24 hours between sessions, for four weeks, totaling 8 sessions. Control group: 20 elderly women with overactive bladder complaints receive the electric current in the posterior tibial nerve in a sensible way (the big toe does not flex), 2 times a week, with a minimum interval of 24 hours between sessions for 4 weeks totaling 8 sessions. The duration of therapy is 30 minutes for both groups. Revaluations take place within 5 weeks.
Females aged 60 years, complaining of overactive bladder. 
Women are excluded elderly who use pacemakers and metal implants in the region of the right ankle, being contraindications of electrotherapy, patients submit UTI by urine culture or have pain when urinating and/or suprapubic pain (interstitial cystitis), presenting with hematuria sterile urine (suspicion of carcinoma in situ of the bladder), women who use drugs to treat overactive bladder in the past six months and women with a neurological disease.
Improvement of symptoms referred to the overactive bladder syndrome observed by the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Overactive Bladder (ICIQ-OAB), voiding diary and Overactive Bladder-Validated 8-question (OAB-V8)
Improved quality of life due to the expected improvement in symptoms of anxiety and depression questionnaire by the Beck Anxiety and Depression Questionnaire Geriatric Improves the electrical activity of the pelvic floor electromyography
Comparison of kinematic variables of gait on a treadmill and on the ground of individuals with Parkinson
Comparison of kinematic variables of gait on a treadmill and on the ground of individuals with Parkinson
7 individuals of both genders diagnosed with idiopathic Parkinson
Independent walking; not be in pharmacological adaptation phase; no pain, fracture, or serious injury to soft tissues in the 6 months previous to the study; no history of cognitive, respiratory or cardiovascular disorders not controlled; be classified in stages I to III of Hoehn Yahr scale.
Present other neurological diseases than Parkinson
It is expected to verify that the gait variables analyzed in treadmill and soil are similar. For that will be used two video cameras that will enable the analysis of width and step length of the participants while walking on the soil (5 turns on the oval circuit) and the treadmill (walking for 30 minutes in preference speed). The images captured by the cameras are analyzed by a computer program, and the significance level for the desired outcome is achieved is p > 0.05, meaning that the width and step length values on the treadmill and soil are similar.
During the 30 minutes that participants walk on the treadmill, the variables length and step width will be analyzed every five minutes to check for linearity values. Also will be added the calculation of step length variability, because this details the step length measures and is an important measure of flaws in the neural mechanisms of motion control. It is expected that a linearity is observed in the values of the variables during the course of the analyzed minutes on the treadmill.
Effects of clown intervention on the psychological stress and fatigue in children and adolescents with cancer receiving chemotherapy
Correlations between immunological biomarkers and response to fatigue and psychological stress in children and adolescents with cancer undergoing chemotherapy submitted to clown intervention 
Experimental group: 40 children and adolescents aged 2 to 18 years; of both sexes; diagnosed with malignant neoplasm receiving chemotherapy during the collection of biological material (saliva); and submitted to clown intervention

Control group: 40 healthy children and adolescents aged 2 to 18 years; of both sexes; with no history of chronic disease / autoimmune / psychiatric disease; in followed up in one of the 5 Family Health Unitis, and presenting recent normal blood count; and without being submitted to clown intervention
Experimental group;Children and adolescents aged 2 to 18 years; of both sexes; diagnosed with malignant neoplasm; in any phase of chemotherapy; who present conscious, able to communicate verbally, reading and writing; Control group;Children and adolescents aged 2 to 18 years; with no history of chronic disease or autoimmune disease or psychiatric illness; followed up in one of the 5 Family Health Unitis; not be receiving medication at the time of selection or collection of biological samples; who present conscious, able to communicate verbally, reading and writing; presenting recent blood count data in normal levels;

Experimental group;Patients with a history of chronic disease or autoimmune disease or psychiatric disease; patients receiving radiotherapy; patients in palliative care; patients using antidepressants or drugs which altering the mood; patients with clownfobia; patients with infectious conditions in activity; patients in the immediate postoperative period; Control group;Children and adolescents with infectious conditions in course; presence of fever in the last 48 hours; in use of systemic corticosteroids, inhaled or topical in the last 15 days;
Decrease of stress levels and cancer-related fatigue after the clown intervention, verified by changes in the circadian rhythm of cortisol, alpha-amylase and pro inflammatory cytokines, from the observation of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Effect of peanut in appetite and diabetes risk
Acute and second meal effects of peanuts on glycemic response and appetite in obese women a randomized crossover trial
Fifteen obese women with high type 2 diabetes risk participated in a randomized crossover trial lasting 8 hours where 42.5g of whole peanuts (P), peanut butter (PB), or no peanuts (control - C) were added to a 75g available carbohydrate-matched breakfast meal.
Age 18 - 60 years, body mass index  between 30 - 35 kg/m2, not taking medications known to affect glycemia, fat metabolism, or appetite; regular breakfast consumer (?100 kilocalories ingested within 2 hours of waking on ?4d/wk); no body weight fluctuation (
Type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia or high blood pressure.
Improvement on glucose homeostasis (Glucose, insulin and free fatty acids)
Higher concentration  of Glucagon-like peptide-1 , cholecystokinin and Peptide YY; Increase satiety; Reduction of food intake.
Effect of physical therapy in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis
Effects of different physical therapy protocols on knee osteoarthritis treatment
For the study were selected 45 volunteers of both sexes, with clinical diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis, according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria. The volunteers were divided into three groups: GI, GII and GIII. In GI, 17 seniors did aquatic exercises and muscle stretching segment; G II: 16 elderly conducted exercises on the ground over the global postural re-education and GIII: 12 elderly received no treatment during the intervention period. The treatment program consisted of 16 sessions each lasting one hour, twice weekly for two months. To evaluate the effectiveness of treatment programs were used at the start and end of the treatment period, specific tools for assessing the functional capacity (six minute walk test), risk of falls (Timed up and go test) pain, stiffness and functionality (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index) and body mass index (BMI). For presentation of the data was used descriptive statistics, with values ??of percentiles, mean, standard deviation, median, interquartile range and absolute numbers. Was performed to compare the groups in relation to potential confounders and in relation to evolution after the follow-up by non-parametric tests of chi-square, Fisher
Aged 60 and over; both sexes; diagnosis of OA in one knee and the functional class I, II and III according to clinical and radiographic criteria of the American College of Rheumatology

Associated disease that primarily affects the lower limbs (ankylosing spondylitis; rheumatoid arthritis; neurological diseases); surgical history on his knees in the last year; physical therapy the past six weeks; contraindications to the aquatic and terrestrial service; osteoarthritis functional class IV according to clinical and radiographic criteria of the American College of Rheumatology
Comparing the functional physical aspects after intervention (pain, stiffness and physical activity), it was observed that the participants of GI groups (aquatic therapy) and GII (land physical therapy) achieved a statistically significant reduction of all variables compared to the control group (GIII) (p <0.05). However, no statistically significant differences when comparing GI and GII.
Comparing the results after the intervention, it was observed that the participants of GI (aquatic therapy) and GII (land physical therapy) achieved a statistically significant reduction in travel time variables in the 6MWT and risk of falls in TUGT compared to the control group (p <0 , 05). However, no statistically significant differences when comparing GI and GII.
methods of caries removal - A multicenter study
partial versus complete removal of decayed tissue - a multicenter controlled randomized clinical trial  
Initially the patient will be subjected to visual clinical examination and radiographic examination. after, the patient will undergo local anesthesia (2% lidocaine with epinephrine) and absolute isolation of the operative field. Partial caries removal (test) or total removal of decayed tissue (control) with the use of low-speed drills and dentin spoons. after, tooth restoration will be held in question. Removal of absolute isolation, finishing and polishing the restoration.
Will be 32 participants per group, each with at least two teeth to be treated (a test group and a control). Participants must attend to the procedures and after every 06 months for clinical and radiographic evaluation for 24 months.
Teeth with occlusal contact with the antagonist and proximal contact in cases of occlusal proximal restorations at baseline; active deep carious lesions in dentin limited occlusal and occlusal proximal surface of deciduous molars; lesion in the dentine deep to 1 mm separating the injury of the pulp and the pulp to the dentin amelo junction divided by 2 the lesion must be on the inner half of dentin; absence of clinical diagnosis of pulp exposure; absence of fistula; absence of swelling and mobility not compatible with root resorption; absence of clinical signs and symptoms of irreversible pulpitis; absence of radiolucency in the furcation or periapical region or spacing of the periodontal ligament; lack of internal or external root resorption pathological; 4 to 8 years old; both sexes; good general health; children whose parents read and signed the consent form;
patients suffering from bruxism; dental erosion; fluorosis and severe hypoplasia; patients with motor problems;
Outcome: Condition pulp - pulp vitality. It will be assessed by clinical parameters (no fistula, swelling, spontaneous pain and pathologic mobility) and radiographic parameters (no thickening of periodontal ligament, furcal injury, apical or periapical and / or pathological root resorption). The evaluation will occur in the immediate postoperative period, 06, 12, 18 and 24 months.
Outcome: Quality of restorative procedures. It will be evaluated by examining the survival of the restorations rate over 24 months. This evaluation will take place through FDI criterion. Scores 1, 2 and 3 shall be deemed successful and scores 4:05 as restorative failure. The evaluation will occur in the immediate postoperative period, 06, 12, 18 and 24 months.
Effects of physical exercise in patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Effects of elastic resistance training on morphological and functional parameters in patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
For the present study will be evaluated COPD patients, previously diagnosed according to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD). Individuals will sign a free and informed consent.
The sample will be divided randomly into three groups: group training with elastic bands (GBE): 15 patients with COPD who conduct physical training with elastic bands (Theraband), training group with elastic tubes (GTE): 15 patients diagnosed COPD carry out the physical exercise with elastic tubes and conventional training group (GTC): 15 patients with COPD who carry out the exercise with weight training equipment.
Patients must have a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; both genders; tifennau index less than 70 percent; be aged between 45 and 70 years; being clinically stable.
Cardiac comorbidities and musculoskeletal disorders; exacerbation within one month of the initial evaluation.
Increased muscle strength of the patients in both resistance training and maintenance programs in the control group; checked by digital dynamometer; based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Improved functional capacity of patients most evident in elastic resistance group compared to conventional; verified by the 6-minute walk test (6MWT); from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Increase in anti-inflammatory cytokines in  patients in resistance training in all groups; verified by blood test method ELISA ; from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Evaluation of brief intervention for smoking: pilot study of a randomized clinical trial
Cost-effectiveness evaluation between two approaches to treatment of smoking in the SUS (Unified Health System): brief intervention and intensive approach to the smoker

 Intervention group: 40 people
A single, individual session, Brief Intervention (BI) with Motivational Interviewing approach to cessation of tobacco use applied by a trained interviewer with a degree in psychology or medicine. The intervention will be applied in 40 minutes and cannot exceed this time. The intervention site will be a Primary Health Care Unit (PHCU). The participant will not receive any type of material, medication, or NRT (nicotine replacement therapy) before, during, or after the intervention. The intervention will be carried out at the PHCU on the date and time scheduled by phone after the baseline interview. The interventions will begin at the same time, to count the 3 and 6 month intervals for follow-ups, which should also be performed at the same time. Three and six months after the individual session, follow-up interviews by telephone will be conducted to assess the results.
Daily use of cigarettes for at least one year; Be at least 18 years old; Provide permanent address and phone for contact; Agree to be allocated to one of the groups and to participate in the three- and six-month follow-ups;sample size target 80 people.
 Failure to understand the instruments used; Presenting Psychotic Syndrome, Mood disorder with psychotic features; Manic or hypomanic episode; suicide risk (moderate or severe), and dependence on alcohol or other drugs (besides nicotine).
Results The cessation of tobacco use (abstinence) outcome was not observed in the experimental group (Brief Intervention). Participants stated that they did not stop using tobacco after the intervention. In the control group (Cognitive-Behavioral Approach) 20% of the participants reported being abstinent at the 3-month follow-up and 11% at 6 months.
Expected outcome: Decrease in the degree of nicotine dependence  Method used: evaluated by the Fagerström test that has 6 questions and shows whether the degree is low, medium, high, or very high) Results In the nicotine dependence assessment, the moderate level predominated (in 58% of experimental group participants and in 60% for the control) at baseline. In the three-month follow-up what stood out in the experimental group was the low level (50% of participants), and in the control, the moderate level (60%). At 6 months, in the experimental group it was observed that the nicotine dependence level remained moderate (60% of the participants) and in the control, low (55%). 
Effects of Muscle Energy Technique on Neck Range of Motion and Head Position
Effects of Muscle Energy Technique on Range of Motion and Cervical Spine Position Sense of Subjects with Chronic Neck Pain
The muscular energy spinal manipulation is a manipulative technique that aims at normalization of vertebral motion through isometric muscle contractions of low intensity. The technique is applied only once after the initial neck mobility tests, while maintaining patient comfort throughout the procedure. The Motion tests involved in this study are simple and consist of quantitatively evaluating the degree of rotation, flexion and extension of the cervical spine. In the head relocation accuracy test, the patient position the head in a neutral position, perform a movement in the maximum amplitude and return the head to the neutral position trying to reach the same starting position. The sample consists of 18 individuals with chronic neck pain, between 18 and 50 years old. There is no randomization, because the study involves test-retest reliability of motion parameters of a single group of patients with chronic neck pain.
Subjects presenting neck pain for more than three months.
Trauma. Pregnancy. Peripheral neurological disease. Vestibular dysfunction. Systemic neurological disease. Congenital abnormalities. Pain during manipulative procedure.
It is expected to increase the range of motion of rotation, flexion and extension cervical spine by at least 5 degrees (in each direction), immediately after application of the manipulative procedure. It is expected to observe improvement in head repositioning accuracy to close to 0°. The muscle energy manipulations act directly over these parameters by normalizing the neurophysiological relationship of agonists and antagonists muscles and also the mechanoreceptors input, allowing improvement of cervical spine motion and the spatial position of the head. The parameters of interest were assessed before and after application of the  manipulative technique using three-dimensional inertial sensors. The inertial sensors are noninvasive microelectronic devices, fixed on the skin of specific anatomical regions using double-sided tape.
Substantial improvement in pain immediately after manipulation by at least two points of the subjective scale.
Avaliation of efficacy of Trial-Based Cognitive Therapy in the adherence to drug treatment in HIV-infected patients  
Controlled trial comparing the efficacy of Trial-Based Cognitive Therapy (TBCT) and standard treatment about the adherence to the treatment of patients with HIV/AIDS  with antiretroviral therapy failure assisted in Salvador, Bahia
The intervention group with Trial-Based Cognitive Therapy: 48 HIV-infected people will be divided in  8 groups of 6 people, they will have 14 sessions of psicological therapy ,  one session weekly , each one lasting 90 minutes. The control group will be compound of 48 HIV-infected people  with usual drug treatment of  HIV service and without psicological therapy .  Moreover that group will have one psicological session that related aspects to promote adherence to antiretroviral therapy will be discussed.
HIV-infected patients with viral load higher than 500 copies/mL in the last two tests or virologic controlled due to non-adherence to antiretroviral therapy. Age between 18 and 65 years, to be able to write and follow the protocol
Difficult with reading and whitting activities; the patient can not participate in another psychological therapy, and he can not have psychiatric or clinical diagnosis that interferes in the study.
 
-
the improvement of quality of life, measured by the  SF36 questionnaire Brazilian version considering the component results related to the  mental health, physical health and general health. The analysis will be performed in baseline, three and six months after the intervention  in each group, and comparing  the intervention group with the control group.
Aquatic therapy on muscle strenght and quality of life in elderly women
The influence of aquatic physical therapy program on muscle srenght and quality of life in elderly women

The intervention program will have 12 weeks, with frequency of three times a week on alternate days, with a total duration of 45 minutes. The voluntaries will be randomized and allocated into two groups: water group with 10 elderly women who will be submitted to aquatic physical therapy program in a therapeutic pool with temperature maintained between 32 C and 33 C. The intervention program will consist of stretching arms and legs, resistance exercises for the muscles of the arms and legs, using equipment such as spaghetti, EVA boards and floats, ending with relaxation. The exercise program duration time will be progressive, 24 minutes in the first month, increasing to 30 minutes in the second month and ending with 36 minutes in the last month. The second group is the control group inactive: 10 elderly women , who do not perform any type of exercise or other physical therapy.
Volunteers aged over 60 years; that did not show any functional impairment and cardiorespiratory disease that is restrictive for the implementation of the program of aquatic exercise.Additionally, the volunteers should not participate in other programs of regular exercise.
Volunteers who present  the following contraindications for aquatic exercise program; otitis; hydrophobia; sores on the skin; mycoses and hypertension stage III.
Increased muscle strength through test 1 Repetition Maximum (1RM), around 25% and improves the quality of life measured by WHOQOL-BREF between 70-80% in the physical, mental and social domains in the water group after the end intervention. In the control group is expected to occur no changes in the values of any variable analyzed.
The results of the Water Group (Intervention) will be statistically better (considering p <0.05) than the control group, in  the following variables: muscle strength assessed by the 1RM test and quality of life assessed by WHOQOL-BREF after the end of treatment.
PREVER Study: Efficacy of Chlorthalidone associated with Amiloride versus  Losartan in reducing blood pressure of patients with hypertension Prever 2 Study

PREVER Study: Efficacy of Chlorthalidone associated with Amiloride versus  Losartan in reducing blood pressure of patients with hypertension Prever 2 Study

Drug: Chlorthalidone 12,5 mg associated with Amiloride 2,5 mg once daily
Drug: Losartan 25 mg once daily 
I. Individuals with 40 to 70 years, of both sexes;
II. Diagnosis of Hypertension in stage I, ie, systolic (SBP)  between 140-159 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) between 90-99 mmHg
I. Chronic diseases that reduce life expectancy or difficulty in understanding the guidelines, which limit the possibility of participation in the study;
II. Refusal to participate or sign an informed consent;
I. Lowering blood pressure to less than 140/90 mmHg; II. Incidence of Adverse Events; III. Incidence of diabetes mellitus, microalbuminuria, hypokalemia, hiperuricemia and left ventricular hypertrophy on ECG. 
I. All-cause mortality II. Incidence of Coronary Artery Disease (Acute Coronary Syndrome, need for revascularization, sudden death) III. Fatal and nonfatal stroke IV. Heart failure (requiring hospitalization) V. Duplication of plasma levels of creatinine or need for dialysis VI. Incidence of diabetes mellitus. 
Translation and Adaptation for Assessment of Trunk Control
Translation and Adaptation Assessment of Trunk Control (SATCo) 
The subject should be seated on a bench with your feet flat on the floor or on a stable surface and the position of the pelvis and thighs controlled by a system of bandaging. The pelvis will be in a neutral position with respect to the vertical axis. The subjects remained upright posture 
Individuals of both sexes and showing any kind of muscular dystrophy, aged 7 to 30 years
Patients without at least control head, which have recently undergone surgery of the spine, and exhibiting severe deformities in the spine. Patients whose parents and  or guardian, or the individual himself does not sign the informed consent form.
Rating Scale Segmental Control of Trunk translated and adapted from the evaluation of responses and categorize them into static, active and reactive. This scale will evaluate the trunk control in patients with movement disorders.
Determining the appropriateness of using the Rating Scale Segmental Control of Trunk translated and adapted for the identification and qualification of disease progression or improvement of trunk control in comparing before and after the therapeutic procedure.
Oral health and mastication in patients with Parkinson’s disease
Oral health and chewing function in patients with Parkinson’s disease
Case group: 15 patients with Parkinson
Case group: volunteer with Parkinson
Case group: volunteers should not have neurodegenerative disease, except for Parkinson
 It will be expected to find an impairment in the oral health and masticatory function in the group with Parkinson's disease when compared to the control group. The oral health is evaluated by the sum of the number of decayed, missing and filled teeth (DMFT) of the volunteers. For determining the expected outcome, a difference of 5% in the value of DMFT between the experimental and control groups are considered clinically significant. The chewing function is measured by the value of 'X50', and for determining the expected outcome, differences of 2 points in this figure are clinically relevant.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Psychological treatment for obese adolescents and their effects on social interaction and body mass index

Multifocal intervention in obese adolescents: social competence, 
behavior problems, academic performance and weight reduction
G1 – Complete experimental group (n=13). It involved 20 meetings with the adolescents divided into 16 for the psychological intervention (2 times per week), and 04 monthly for the nutritional orientations; 09 meetings with parents, of which 06 bi-weekly, 02 nutritional meetings (01 in the beginning and the other after 30 days) and also um meeting with a physical educator in the first week of the intervention, I addition to 36 sessions of physical exercises for all adolescents, conducted 03 times per week. G2 – Simple experimental group (n=15) : 04 monthly meetings with adolescents for nutritional orientation, 09 meetings with the parents (06 bi-weekly with a psychologist, 02 with a nutritionist and 01 with a physical educator) and 36 sessions of physical exercises for adolescents. G3 – Control group (n=11):  not having psychological intervention, simply meetings with a nutritionist and a physical educator for the adolescents and parents and physical exercises sessions for the adolescents.
The psychological intervention was a behavioral approach and contained life experience activities toward the learning of skills such as self-control, assertiveness, solving problems (including nicknaming and bullying) and reading the context that contribute to the reduction of behavioral problems and to the gain of self-worthiness skills, such as self-esteem, self-efficacy, therefore enhancing the social competence. The parents
Both mass index above than the 95th percentile for age featuring obese according to the curves of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC, 2000); between 10 and 19 years old; willingness to participate in all program activities.
Psychological disorders; use of medications that could interfere in the variables; physical difficulties that impeded the development of all activities.
Obese adolescents who participated of the full intervention group, increased their social competence score, reduced behavior problems, reduced body mass index and maintained this reduction for one year.
Não são esperados desfechos secundários.
Pulse oximetry during dental treatment in people with sickle cell disease
 Pulse oximetry during dental treatment in people with Sickle Cell Disease
Single-arm, quasi- experimental study, with intra-group comparisons in three different moments ( M0, M1 and M2 ) :
Taking into consideration dental treatment as intervention.
Sixty six teens (from 12 years old) or adults (to 50 years old) with diagnosis and genotype for sickle cell disease established by blood test and medical clearance for dental treatment. Teens or adults with SCD who agree and sign the free and informed consent.Teens or adults with SCD and cognitive ability to answer the questionnaires. Teens or adults with SCD and adequate cognitive comportment whose laboratory and biochemical parameters enable the dental treatment.
Pregnancy, syndromes or any other condition that requires for care for people with special needs.Adolescents and adults with Sickle Cell Disease who received blood transfusions within 30 days;
Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease and heart or lung disease. Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease and adenoidal or tonsillar obstruction. Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease and serology HIV positive. Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease and positive serology for viral hepatitis.Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease and hypertension.Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease undergoing hormone therapy. Lack of follow-up consultations by adolescents or adults with Sickle Cell Disease during the stages research.Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease in whom we could not use the pulse oximeter or reading the oximeter was inconsistent. Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease who have not responded the questionnaire on fear / anxiety during dental treatment. Teens or adults with Sickle Cell Disease who decline the survey, retirarando their terms of appointment or consent.
People with sickle cell disease will show level of oxygen saturation higher than 90%, before, during and after dental treatment.  
People with sickle cell disease will be classified according to anxiety dental scale;  
A cooldown phase after intense exercise can decrease the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias?
A cooldown phase after intense exercise can decrease the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias?
Outpatients referred to treadmill exercise testing were selected. They were included in the protocol if they presented complex ventricular arrhythmias during the exercise phase. Then, the patients were randomly assigned to two groups: in active recovery phase the patients were kept walking for 6 minutes after exercise at a velocity of 1,7 mph and no inclination; in passive recovery phase they were placed at rest in supine position immediately after exercise. There were 111 patients included, of which 56 were allocated to active recovery group and 55 were allocated to passive recovery group.
Any patient presenting complex ventricular arrhythmia in the stress phase of the exercise test.  
Patients with cardiac implantable devices; incapacity to keep walking after exercise phase; atrial fibrillation or flutter; technical artifacts in the electrocardiogram.
Incidence decrease of ventricular premature beats, measured in beats/minute, in the active recovery group.
None.
Study in Matão to prevent Stroke: preventing Stroke in city of Matão, Brazil
Mapa: Stroke prevention in Matão 
Estimated patients number: 1000
Follow-up period: 10 years
All first ever stroke patients aged,  aged older than 18 years old; residents in Matão city.
Subjects living in other localities;  subjects with previous stroke. 
Number of stroke occurrence in each year. Number of deaths related with stroke in each year. Disabilities observed in each year.  
Hospitalization index in each year
Therapy for the treatment of children with inattention and hyperactivity
Cognitive behavioral therapy in the treatment of children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
There were two groups of participants, who were divided into two intervention groups:
Intervention group 1: 20 participants made use of methylphenidate long-acting medication and underwent cognitive behavioral therapy for 20 weeks.
Aged 7 to 14 years; 
Indicative of ADHD as a primary disorder; 
Prematurity;
Established diagnosis of other conditions (intellectual déficit; epilepsy; genetic syndromes; HIV; hydrocephalus; brain lesions
We hope that the group that received the combined intervention (medication and CBT) compared to single intervention (medication) present better results considering T score below 70 on aggressive measures, hyperactivity, attention, behavioral problems, depression, anxiety, challenging behavior / opponent in behavioral scale Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL).  We hope that the group that received the combined intervention (medication and CBT) compared to single intervention (medication) present better results considering T score below 70 on measures Behavioral regulation, metacognition and Global Executive Function in Brife Scale (Quick Inventory of Executive Functions) answered by parents and teachers.  We hope that the group that received the combined intervention (medication and CBT) compared to single intervention (medication) present above average results for the difficulties indicator: empathy (mean> 0.41); assertiveness (mean> 0.84); self-control (mean> 1.07); participation (mean> 0.65).
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effects of music on cardiovascular system

Effect of different hearing stimuli on cardiac autonomic regulation
Each group will consist of 20 people according to gender. Data collection will be held in a room with temperature between 21 ° C and 25 ° C and humidity between 50 and 60% and the volunteers will be instructed not to ingest alcohol and caffeine within 24 hours prior to evaluation. The collection will be done individually, between 8:11 AM to minimize interference of the circadian rhythm, and volunteers will be instructed to remain at rest, avoiding conversations during the collection.
After the initial assessment, will be positioned on the chest of the volunteers in the region of the distal sternum strap capture and the wrist, the receiver of Polar S810i heart rate (Polar Electro, Finland), previously validated equipment to capture the frequency heart beat to beat and use your data for analysis of HRV. After placing the strap and the monitor, the volunteers will be placed on their backs and remain at rest for 20 minutes with the headset off.
Healthy subjects with no experience with classical dance and musical instrument lessons.
Disorders of auditory sensitivity, cardiorespiratory disorders, neurological and other impairments that prevent the subject known to perform procedures, treatment with drugs that influence cardiac autonomic regulation, practice-classical dance for at least one year, participation in classes of any musical instrument for at least one year.
Activation rates of linear, nonlinear and geometric related to activation of the sympathetic system through the music of heavy metal style. Activation rates of linear indices, nonlinear and geometric related to the parasympathetic system and increased heart rate variability through classical music.
Positive correlation between the intensity of the sound stimulus and linear indices, nonlinear and geometric sympathetic activity. Negative correlation between the intensity of the sound stimulus and linear indices, nonlinear and geometric regarding parasympathetic activity.
Comparison between different methods of strength training on muscle adaptations and functional performance in older women
Comparison of methods for determining the load and speed of executation of strength training on neuromuscular adaptations and performance of functional perfomance in older women
Strength training lasting 12 weeks will be applied with a frequency of 2 times per week. The 3 groups will have different characteristics of training: G% will have their load modulated through the percentage of a maximum repetition with a traditional execution speed (2 seconds for each phase), the GPE will have his load modulated by perceived exertion with traditional execution speed (2 seconds for each phase), and the GPO will have its load modulated by perceived exertion with maximum speed of execution in the concentric phase. These types of training intended to check which ones have better neuromuscular response, preventing in this way part of the deleterious effects of aging, such as the reduction in strength, muscle mass and functional capacities. 45 subjects will be selected, 15 each group (G% = percentage group; GPE = group perceived exertion; GPO = power group). The subject does not know in which the experimental group will be allocated, and all study related assessments will be made by the evaluators that unaware which group individuals belong (double blinding). The allocation will be made at random, using a numerical order generated by computer. 3 complete assessments will be made: one avaliation four weeks before the entry and another on the entry (control period), and also at week 12 (end), in addition to partial testing in weeks 4 and 8. The evaluations will be made up of neuromuscular tests (maximum strength, maximum repetitions and jumps) and functional (walking test, steps, test to rise from a chair, walk 3 meters and return to sit, sit and stand and test 6 minutes walk).
Women aged between 60 and 75 years. Not strength training practitioner at least 12 months. Not practicing regular exercise with weekly frequency equal to or exceeding twice. Low to moderate levels of physical activity. Apparently healthy, without involving the neuromuscular system, cardiovascular and endocrine. Medical certificate agreeing with the practice of strength training. Lack of use of any medication with influence in the neuromuscular system.
Change in health condition established by medical certificate.
After 12 weeks of training, compared to entry into the study, it is expected significant gains assessment of power (squat jump), the magnitude of 10-15% in all experimental groups, where the power group will present greater values than the others (additional increment of 10-15%).
After 12 weeks of training, compared to entry into the study, it is expected significant gains in strength endurance exercise on knee extensor (maximum repetitions test with 70% of one maximum repetition), the magnitude of 40% in all experimental groups.
Prognostic indexes of reintubation
Validation of combination of prognostic indexes for reintubation in adults and verification of its applicability in different clinical situations
Performance of test to obtain tidal volume to frequency ratio and of maximal inspiratory pressure before extubation of all patients under weaning ventilator (n=112) in order to determine the rapid shallow breathing index, follow extubation outcome in 48 hours (there is no control group)
patients under mechanical ventilation
adults
traqueotomized
without weaning criteria
reintubation prediction power of rapid shallow breathing index (RSBI)
verify the best cut-off to RSBI
Randomized clinical trial of three materials after partial caries removal in primary teeth
Randomized clinical trial of three pulp capping materials after partial caries removal in primary teeth
Experimental Group 1: Mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA Angelus Londrina PR - BR). Experimental Group 1: Portland Cement (Votorantim Cimentos São Paulo - BR). Control Group: Calcium hydroxide cement (Hydro C® / Dentsply Philadelfia - USA). The protective materials are placed gently on the pulp wall, a thickness of approximately 1mm. Each group will receive the indicated protective material and handling the materials are made according to the manufacturer
The sample inclusion criteria comprise children between 5-9 years old of both genders, that do not present systemic diseases; no allergic reaction history to the latex rubber dam and / or local anesthetic; with at least one or two primary molars (upper / lower) committed by deep decay that reaches two thirds of the dentin; occlusal and / or occlusal-proximal caries; with lack of sensitivity and / or spontaneous pain; absence of pulp exposure; absence of excessive mobility; absence of fistula or abscess; Radiographic absence of internal and external resorption; Radiographic absence of root resorption greater than 1/3 of the root; Radiographic absence of radiolucent image in the periapical region and furca that might indicate the presence of irreversible pulpitis or pulp necrosis; gum apparently healthy place; and tooth restorative possibility (BRESSANI et al, 2013;. Petrou et al, 2013;. SCHWENDICKE et al, 2015.).
Exclusion criteria comprise presence of systemic diseases; history of allergic reaction to the latex rubber dam and / or local anesthetic (BRESSANI et al, 2013;. SCHWENDICKE et al, 2015.).
The clinical performance of the teeth to partial removal of deep caries must be improve. The evaluation will be ninety-three and / or second upper and lower molars compromised by deep cavity of children between 5-9 years of age, of both sexes, are carefully selected and randomly assigned at random from among the following groups: Group I - Hydroxide Cement calcium, Group II - Mineral Trioxide Aggregate and Group III - Portland cement. Clinical and radiographic will be held at 6 and 12 months. Will use the chi-square test for intragroup comparisons will be adopted and 5% significance level for the differences are considered statistically significant. For outcomes will be considered a variation of at least 5% in clinical and radiographic assessments so that the differences are considered statistically significant.
The comparison of different materials for clinical treatment of deciduous teeth with deep caries. The evaluation will be use the materials: calcium hydroxide, cement mineral trioxide aggregate and portland cement from the clinical success of finding the observation period of 6 and 12 months. For outcomes will be considered a variation of at least 5% in clinical and radiographic assessments so that the differences are considered statistically significant.
Multiprofessional Program for Obesity Treatment in adolescents
Multidisciplinary Treatment of Obesity and Metabolic Syndrome in Adolescents: intensive behavioral approach
Multiprofessional program of Obesity Treatment 

Number of participants: 220 adolescents who are overweight, with 130 participants in the intervention group (IG) and 90 in the control group (CG).
Adolescents classified with overweight or obesity according to the criteria established by Cole et. al (2000); concordance of the adolescent and his/her parents/guardians in participating integrally in the interventions.  
The exclusion criteria were: endocrine and metabolic diseases previously diagnosed and informed to the pediatrician; long-term alcohol consumption; use of glucocorticoids and psychotropics which could affect appetite regulation; less than 70 % compliance in all multidisciplinary interventions.
FOUND OUTCOME: Reduction in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MS) based on the cutoff points for the International Diabetes Federation (IDF 2007) from the finding of a 30% reduction in the prevalence of MS after 16 weeks of intervention.
FOUND OUTCOME: Improved the quality of life related to health checked by the generic questionnaire PedsQLTM 4.0 based on statistically significant differences (p = 0.001), among the average pre-intervention 74.34 ± 14.15 and the post-intervention 78,24±11.97.
Influence of gymnastics classes on the development of balance control in elderly
Gymnastics for All in postural balance in noninstitutionalized elderly: a randomized controlled trial.
The intervention group, composed for 40 elderly, will participate in 1 hour of gymnastics class, 3 times per week, for 3 months. 


The control group, composed for 40 elderly, will participate 1 time per week in 1-hour of lecture (about health topics such as nutrition, physical exercise, fall prevention, etc), for 3 months.
60-year and older age for both men and women, noninstitucionalized. 10 m of free walking without any auxiliary device. Low cardiovascular risk. Medical permission for participation in the study

 Diagnosed psychiatric disease. Gait and balance dysfuntioc (Parkinson, Multiple Sclerosis,  stroke sequel, etc.). Use of meclizine hydrochloride. Severe respiratory insufficiency. Severe coronar arterial disease. Severe renal insufficiency. Severe hepatic insufficiency. Severe osteoporosis. With articular prosthesis and osteosynthesis material. Arterial pressure imbalance.  Dyslipidemc patients. Visual deficiency.  Uncontrolled diabetes. Labyrinthitis.  Minimental  score smaller than 24 points. Regular participation in an exercise program in the last 3 months.

Postural balance evaluated by clinical testing (Berg Balance Scale; Timed Up and Go Test; Modified Romberg Tests; Functional Reach Test; Star Excursion Balance Test; and  Tandem walking;) on the beginning and end of the study.    
The secondary outcomes are not expected.
The results of pharmacist consultations for the patient
Pharmaceutical Care in the hypertension: clinical, economic and social impact.
191 patients agreed to participate, but 104 patients attended the consultations. It was a clinical trial compared to a single group before and after intervention. We emphasize that all subjects were followed by the pharmacist for 12 months, with one query per month during 2009. Thus, all subjects received pharmacotherapeutic monitoring by Pharmacist.
The pharmaceutical consultations were based on the model of the Pharmacist’s Workup of Drug Therapy (PWDT) pharmacotherapeutic monitoring model. Therefore, during 2009 each patient was scheduled to consult the pharmacist once a month during a year. The first appointment was designated as a welcome consultation to obtain the medical history of the patient, demographic data, socioeconomic profile, lifestyle, eating habits and measures for cardiovascular risk profile.
Hypertension, over 18 years in treatment.
Previously be gone, cognitive impairment, pregnant and lactating.
Outcome found: reduction of 17.8 mmHg and 7.1 mmHg in systolic and diastolic pressure, respectively.
Expected outcome: 14.65% reduced to 10.9% (35.6% reduction).
Impact of macrolides antibiotics in mortality of patients infected by HIV with community-acquired pneumonia.
Impact of macrolides in mortality of patients infected by HIV with pneumonia: a randomized clinical trial
228 patients were assigned to receive one of two schemes, in 1:1 proportion: 
Scheme 1 (114 patients): monotherapy with ceftriaxone plus placebo for at least 7 days, 
Age over 18 years; HIV infection and community acquired pneumonia.
Calculated sample: 228.
Patients with hospitalization for two or more days in the 90 days prior to admission; coming from nursing homes or shelters; if they had health care in those sites; patients that had received intravenous antibiotics; chemotherapy or treatment of bedsores in the last 30 days; in dialysis; with another cause that justifies the lung symptoms on admission; such as pulmonary fibrosis; pneumocystosis; tuberculosis or other non-bacterial disease; pregnant or nursing women; patients allergic to the study medications (ceftriaxone and azithromycin) or patients that had already been randomized in this study.
Lethality is the primary outcome of this study. Is expected that we will find a smaller lethality rate in group 2, when compared with group 1, evaluated by comparing the inhospital lethality rate between the two groups with Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. For our sample calculation, was estimated a lethality rate of 29% in group 1 and 11% in group 2.
One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller lethality in the first 14 days in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a greater frequency of discharged patients in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller need of intensive care admission in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller use of supplemental oxygen in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller use of non-invasive ventilation in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller use of mechanical ventilation in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller rate of hemodynamic instability, defined as use of vasoactive drugs, in group 2 when compared with group 1,  by Chi-square test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller length of hospitalization in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller length of stay in intensive care unit in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller length of supplemental oxygen use in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller length of non-invasive ventilation usage in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller length of mechanical ventilation usage in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller need os vasoactive drugs in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05. One of the secondary outcomes expected in this study is a smaller time to reach full clinical stability in group 2 when compared with group 1, by MannWhitney or t test, considering statistically significant at p <0.05.
Benefits of physical therapy and cognitive training in the non-motor symptoms (sleep and cognition) in patients with Parkinson
Effectiveness of physical therapy associated to cognitive training in the improvement of non-motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson´s disease: randomized clinical trial

The sample will be composed of individuals with Parkinson
Medical diagnosis of Parkinson
Individuals who perform another therapeutic treatment beyond medication, that has change in medication during the study or those with associated diseases, such as neurological disorders, severe heart disease, amputations, cognitive or understanding deficits. Change in the stabilization of the antiparkinsonian medication doses throughout the study.

1) Improvement of sleep quality assessed pre and post intervention through the following instruments: sleep diary, actigraphy, Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI), Parkinson's disease sleep scale (PDSS), Epworth Sleepiness Scale
7) Improvement of cognitive function assessed pre and post intervention through the following instruments: Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), cognitive and perceptual evaluation through figures, Trail Making Test, clock drawing executive test, verbal fluency test, Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning test (RAVLT).
Evaluation of two types of implants installed in the jaw
A comparative study of marginal bone variation around Titanium-13Zirconium and versus Titanium Grade IV.
12 SLActive® Implants (Control Group) and  12 Roxolid® Implants (Test Group)(Straumann® Dental Implant System, Basel, Switzerland), both with 3.3 diameter and platform 4.8 mm were installed in the posterior region of the jaw in 12 healthy patients. The patients received, randomly, in contralateral regions, one implant of each diameter in the mandible. Neither the patient nor the clinical know what type of implant was installed in each region. The patients received the implants, 6 weeks after received the protheses and periapical radiographs and computed tomography scans were performed 1 year after the prostheses were in function.
To sign voluntary informed consent for using his/her data;
At least 18 years-old; 
Presence of sistemic problems, ex. diabetes
Use of any drug that could affect bone metabolism (biphosphonates);
Comparison of the bone level between TiZr and Ti after 1 year of clinical, radiogrphically and tomographically follow up.It is expected that after the follow up the Titanium-Zirconium implants  provide a higher success rate
Reduced in the failure of the prosthesis in Titanium Zirconium implants after 1 year of follow up through the clinical analysis of fractures in prosthetic components and / or remission of the screws.
A study to validate A Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase enzyme assay
A follow-up of validation test protocol enzyme glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) to study TAF112582
Experimental group with 36 heathy male volunteers for analysis of two collecting blood samples to complete blood count and enzyme G6PD activity to be used in studies with tafenoquina
The subject is between 18 and 45 years of age,  male; 
Hgb concentration greater or equal than 12g/dL; 
History of haemoglobinopathy; 
Past or current history of methaemoglobinaemia or methaemoglobin percentage above 3%; 
The primary population analysis showed that enzymatic activity ranged from 4.21 paragraph 8.14 UI/gHB with media SD(Standard Deviation) of 1.07 UI/GHB; 95% average; Enzymatic activity average 6.26 UI/gHB
The population analysis showed that variability between tests was low (CV of 4.77%)
Effectiveness of desensitizing in reducing tooth sensitivity
Clinical evaluation of exposure to derivatives glue and sensitivity after whitening
Dental vital teeth
Study split-mouth, where the Control group consists of: Bleaching with hydrogen peroxide 35% with placebo in hemi-arch of 33 participants previously drawn by means of sealed envelopes and opaque. Bleaching is performed by applying the bleaching agent 3 times, each application duration of 15 minutes. The placebo is administered before and after the third application of whitening gel, applied with the aid of active mode microbrush (friction) in the labial surface of incisors to premolars for 60 seconds, then apply a light air jet on teeth.
healthy volunteers; aged 18-40 years anterior teeth with upper and lower vitality; free of decay and restorations on the labial face without cervical lesions; absence of periodontal disease; non-smoking. initial color of at least one tooth is A2 or darker.

Volunteers who have made tooth whitening; using desensitizing folders or product that prevents sensitivity; pregnant women; nursing mothers; presenting teeth staining; endodontic treatment; dental sensitivity; Bruxist; use of medications such as analgesics and anti-inflammatories; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Decreased tooth sensitivity for the group undergoing treatment with desensitizing the glutaraldehyde-based after tooth whitening, being checked by the scales: VAS, NRS.
Effective bleaching treatment, even with the use of desensitizing the glutaraldehyde base, it is verified by changes in scales Vita Classical and Bleaching and using the Easyshade device.
Evaluation of acupuncture on the treatment of head,neck and shoulders pain.
Evaluation of acupuncture and electroacupuncture on the treatment of upper trapezius myofascial pain - a randomized double blinded placebo controlled study
Randomized by excel. Acupuncture group: 20 subjects, lying in ventral decubit in a examination table, needles inserted bilaterally at the points GB21, GB20, unilaterally at LI4, LV3 and directly in the region of the MTrPs (maximum of four needles). Electroacupuncture group: 20 subject lying in ventral decubit in a examination table, needles inserted bilaterally at the points GB21, GB20, unilaterally at LI4, LV3 and directly in the region of the MTrPs (maximum of four needles.)The electroacupuncture equipment were programmed as follows: alternating frequency F1=2Hz, T1=5 seconds, F2=100 Hz, T2=5 seconds; total time: 30 minutes; intensity: maximum supported by the patient without pain.  Volunteers from placebo group had the needles inserted on 1cm beside the acupuncture point.  Each volunteer will receive 8 sessions, two sessions weekly and at the same time of the day. 

present at least one myofascial point at the upper trapezius muscle, local or referred pain at least for 6 months and body max index between 19 and 27 kg/m2 
important body posture dysfunction, fibromialgy diagnose, cervical neurological dysfunction, systemic disease or that have received physical interventions for myofascial pain at the last month before the study, that present communication difficulties,constant use medication that can relief muscular pain
Posture improvement by posture assessment software - SAPO. 
Complementary data were asked at the beginning of every session (analgesics, accidents, stress emocional, headache etc) 
Evaluation of four types of therapies for the treatment of urogenital atrophy in postmenopausal women
Randomized controlled clinical trial, with topical use of estrogen,testosterone, polyacryli cacid and placebo in the treatment of urogenital atrophy in postmenopausal women 
A randomized clinical trial based on 96 postmenopausal women is to be conducted. Women undergoing follow-up care at the Unicamp Climacteric Outpatient Facility will be selected and randomized into four groups for vaginal topical treatment: one group will receive topical estrogen, another group will be given topical testosterone, another group will receive polyacrylic acid and a control group will be given placebo for a period of 12 weeks. Trophism, cytology, pH and vaginal collagen production will be assessed at the beginning and end of treatment. Genital and urologic symptoms, sexuality aspects and levels of serum estradiol, total and free testosterone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and ShBG will also be evaluated. 
Physiological menopause with amenorrhea over three years

FSH
The patient
Will be measured trophism, cytology, pH and vaginal collagen production at the beginning and end of treatment through physical examination and collection of laminates and vaginal biopsy in the first and last weeks of follow-up
Will also be measured genital and urological symptoms, aspects of sexuality and the level of serum concentration of estradiol, total and free testosterone, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and SHBG in the first, sixth and last week of the study
Influence of deep foot manipulation in balance
Influence of support area plantar in balance and electromyographic activity
The study will be conducted in three weekly meetings on alternate days, for two weeks, totaling six dates. On the first date, pre-and reviews will be held immediately after the intervention. On days 2 and 5 will apply an evaluation procedure and one of maneuver, on days 3 and 4, only the Protocol for manoeuvre will be applied and the day 6 final evaluation only.
The protocol will be applied in two groups, 16 young (GY) of 18-28 years and 16 elderly (GE) of 65-75 years. These groups are subdivided into two groups, with Group maneuver soles (GYM and GEM) and another the placebo group (GYS and GES). To evaluate the balance will be held the test Timed up and Go (TUG) and electromyographic analysis for three repetitions of the One-foot stance test (OFST) with eyes open and closed, and time limit of 90 seconds.
Gender: females 
Healthy older; between 65 and 75 years; living in the community.
The voluntary doesn
Myofascial manipulation of the feet plant will promote increased planting area, on average of 0.35 cm² and providing improved balance.
With the increase of the planting area is believed to be a decrease, in approximately 7% in the electromyographic activity of the muscles of the lower limb analysis support and also in the upper trapezius muscle, when compared with the initial collection, suggesting that the decrease in co-contraction or stiffness, for conditions of instability.
 Treatment efficacy for anxiety in obstetric elective procedures
Clinical and laboratorial treatment efficacy for general and preoperative anxiety in obstetric elective procedures
Experimental group: 50 pregnant women in the thirty-fifth week with clinical indication of elective delivery and clinical anxiety by psychological evaluation will be submitted after saliva collection to dose cortisol treatment of auricular through adhesive beads (05381531000195 record) and instructed to press them at home for 2 weeks four times a day for 60 seconds. Control group: 50 pregnant women in the thirty-fifth week with clinical indication of elective delivery and clinical anxiety by psychological evaluation will be submitted after saliva collection to dose cortisol treatment of progressive muscle relaxation through breathing training and instructed to carry it in home for 2 weeks four times a day for 60 seconds. Pregnant women in both groups then hold saliva collection and identical psychological evaluation in the thirty-eighth week to compare the degree of anxiety in both groups. On the day of delivery, pregnant women in both groups will be assessed for degree of preoperative anxiety, as well as on the thirtieth day of puerperium the participants in both groups (acupuncture and progressive muscle relaxation) will hold new psychological evaluation for measuring clinical anxiety .
 pregnant women in 35th gestational week with single normal fetus; with indication for elective obstetric interruption; without  clinical and laboratory complications; normal cardiotocography; obstetric ultrasound without  abnormalities.  
use of anxiolytic, sedative or psychoactive drugs;psychiatry disease;previous operative complications;multiple birth;fetal macrossomia;corticotherapy;infection;auricular lesion;high blood pressure symptomatic;gestational diabetes mellitus without control;acuteasthma;active labor;that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Impact of auriculotherapy techniques  compared to relaxation therapy  techniques, in the level of antenatal anxiety measured by Beck Anxiety Inventory.
Impact of auriculotherapy techniques  compared to relaxation therapy  techniques on breasthfeeding time until 6th months postpartum.
Effects of the association of the use of cholesterol-lowering medication and regular practice of physical exercise in people infected with HIV
Association betwwen statin and regular physical activity in people infected by HIV: randomized clinical trial, double-blind and placebo-controlled
80 volunteers will be recruited who will be randomized into four groups: (1) ART + statin group (n = 20); (2) ART + placebo group (n = 20); (3) ART + statin + exercise group (n = 20); (4) ART + placebo + exercise group (n = 20).

Group (1): this group will use antiretroviral therapy + 10 mg / day of rosuvastatin;
Being HIV-infected and using antiretroviral therapy for more than a year and being dyslipidemic. Be over 18 years and less than 60. Have health conditions for the practice of the proposed physical exercises. Be sedentary. Have trip availability three times a week to the training location.
Having diagnosis of opportunistic infections in the last two years. Having a diagnosis of liver disease and/or nephropathy and/or neuropathy. Have a history of orthopedic surgery. Have an body mass index
In groups 1, 3 and 4: reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokine concentrations and reduction of cholesterol concentrations.
Groups 1, 3, 4: better metabolic profile  Groups 3 and 4: improvement of body composition and increase of CD4 + and CD8 + T lymphocytes
Evaluation of the skin firmness and elasticity
Evaluation of the skin firmness and elasticity
30 women with saggy skin will apply on the clean and dry skin the Macadamia Oi or Sweet Almond Oil or Grapeseed Oil from 1 to 2 times a day during the 28 days
Female volunteers, aged between 18 and 60 years, with skin phototype I to IV and intact skin in the region of the test; signs of sagging in the area evaluated; good physical condition and mental health; agreement not to use any topical products on the arms between the 48 h period before the day of the beginning of the study until the end of this; signing the Informed Consent Form ICF.
Skin marks in the experimental area that interfere with evaluation of possible skin reactions, pigmentation disorders , vascular malformations , scars , increased hairiness , freckles and warts aplenty, sunburn ; dermatoses active local or widespread , that may interfere with results of the study .
Pregnant or lactating ; a history of allergic reactions , irritation or discomfort to intense feelings of topical products : cosmetics or medicines ; history of atopy ; intense sun exposure or tanning session up to 15 days before the initial evaluation or during the study prediction of intense sun exposure during the study ; body dermatological aesthetic treatment or up to 03 weeks before selection, such as : mesotherapy , carboxiterapia and body peels.
Sweet Almond Oil no conferred increased significantly of the firmness in skin, but increased significantly elasticity skin by 2.5% after 28  days of use.  Macadamia Oil no conferred significantly increased of the firmness and elasticity of the skin after 28 days of use.  GrapeSeed Oil conferred significantly increased of 6.8% and 1.8% of the firmness and elasticity of the skin, respectively, after 28 days of use.
 not applicable
Performance evaluation of individuals after stroke and its correlation with the ability to throw weight to the affected side
Analysis of functional performance and its correlation with the weight transfer in hemiparetic individuals
0 hemiparetic patients will be evaluated within the period of 6 months by evaluating the dynamic range of spasticity, symmetry and protocol transfer weight (minimum and maximum capacity of symmetry and transfers), level of disability and functional performance. The dynamic range of spasticity assess the difference between slow and fast stretch of the biceps and retofemoral measured by goniometer. The assessment by observation of symmetry and weight transfer record for each item found, the score ranging from 1 to 3 points in the sitting position, and 1 to 4 points in the standing position, as to the minimum and maximum capacity of symmetry and shipments. When items are added indicate a minimum score of 8 and maximum of 27 points in a growing share would indicate conditions classified as symmetrically by author: lack of symmetry and weight transfer (8 points), minimal symmetry and weight transfer (10 to 13 points), moderate capacity for symmetry and transfer of weight (14 to 18 points), the capacity of symmetry and partially good transfer of weight (19 to 24 points), the capacity of symmetry and good transfer of weight (25 to 26 points) and of full symmetry and weight transfer (27 points). The level of disability will be assessed through disability modified Rankin Scale (0-Asymptomatic; 1-symptoms without disability, able to perform their usual tasks and activities in advance; 2 - mild disability, unable to perform all their usual activities beforehand, but able to carry your personal needs without assistance; 3-Moderate disability, requiring some help for their activities, but able to walk without help from another person, 4-moderate to severe disability, inability to walk unaided, inability to perform their activities without help, 5-severe disability, limited to bed, incontinence care nurses and requires constant attention; 6-Death. Functional performance is assessed by Barthel Index, composed of 10 items (feeding, bathing, personal care , ability to dress, intestinal rhythm, rhythm, urine, toilet, transport, mobility and climbing stairs), with a minimum score of 0 and a maximum of 100.
We included individuals who had independent gait;
Ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke in any territory evidenced by computed tomography (CT);
Cognitive impairment;
Neurological deficit in addition to hemiparesis from stroke;
Expected to find negative correlation between the index of performance (low functional performance the closer to 0 and high performance functional as closer to 100) and level of disability of individuals (0-no symptoms, 1-symptoms without disability, 2-mild disability, 3-moderate disability, 4-moderate to severe disability, 5-severe disability and 6-death)and a positive correlation between the index of performance (low functional performance the closer to 0 and the more high-performance functional near 100) and the analysis of symmetry and weight transfer procotolo evaluated by analysis of symmetry and weight transfer (8-symmetry and lack of weight transfer, 10 to 13- minimum capacity, 14 and 18- moderate capacity; 19 to 24- capacity partially good, 25 to 26 -well capacity, 27 - capacity full of symmetry and weight transfer).
Expected to find negative correlation between the degree of disability assessed by the Rankin disability scale modified (0-no symptoms, 1-symptoms without disability, 2-mild disability, 3-moderate disability, 4-moderate to severe disability, 5-severe disability and 6-death) and the degree of spasticity measured by the Tardieu scale (measured in degrees by goniometry of the difference between slow and fast stretch of the biceps and retofemoral). Individuals who present lower angle of spasticity should have better functional performance measured by the Barthel scale.
Analysis of cervical posture and analyze the muscles of the shoulder and upper back for individuals who may use upper and lower dentures
Analysis of electromyography and craniocervical posture of patients with denture bimaxillary
The study will be a single group of a sample of 30 subjects.

 The 30 individuals will be evaluated by RDC / TMD (research diagnostic criteria) - Axis I. Axis I classifies the individual within the group. Group I - muscle disorders (myofascial pain, myofascial pain with limited opening), group II - disc displacement - discopathies (disk displacement with reduction, disk displacement without reduction with limited opening, disc displacement without reduction was limited opening) and Group III - arthralgia, arthritis and arthritis (arthralgia, osteoarthritis and osteoarthrosis of the TMJ TMJ).
Individuals referred for fitting total bimaxillary older than 40 years, who agree to sign an Informed Consent
Individuals under the age of 39 years, patients with cancer who do not agree to sign an informed consent. Dentofacial deformity, trauma in the head and neck. Individuals who take muscle relaxant
Presence of temporomandibular deserdens through the criterion of diagnostic research. Alteration in the posture of the head 1 month after placement of dental prosthesis through photogrammetry and alteration of the trapezius muscles - upper fibers and very long - the lumbar region using electromyography
N/D
Analysis of walking training with partial weight support for post stroke patients.
Multidisciplinary analysis of a motor rehabilitation protocol with partial weight support for post stroke patients: a randomized clinical trial
Control Group: 25 post stroke patients will receive 40 min of physical therapy usually offered to post stroke patients of the Ana Carolina Moura Xavier Rehabilitation Hospital (CHR), one to three times a week depending on the judgment of hospital physical therapists.
Study group: 25 post stroke patients will receive physical therapy usually offered at CHR plus 20 min of gait training with partial weight support on treadmill and over ground, at the same days which they patient receive usual physical therapy.
The intended sample of 50 volunteers must satisy the following criteria:
Confirmed stroke; lower limb residual hemiparesis; score 1 to 5 at Functional Ambulation Cathegory; age above 18 years old.
Present sequelae in both sides of the body or bilateral stroke; Diagnosed cardiac condition instable; present another neurological conditions (i.e. Alzheimer, Parkison, dementia, cerebelar disease, severe cerebelar disorders, etc); severe muscoloskeletal lower limb disorders not related to stroke and might interefere in gait; trunk circumference shorter than 36 cm or larger than 142 cm, body mass larger than 138 kg, height larger than 210 cm, due to the limitations of tue body weight support equipment.
OBSERVED PRIMARY OUTCOME: The observed outcome is in accordance to the expected one. The median of the BBS in the three evaluations of the control group were 30, 35 and 38 points while in the study group were 30, 45 and 46. The score of the BBS was above the minimal detectable change for all participants of the study group and for two participants od the control group.
OBSERVED SECUNDARY OUTCOMES  In general, the observed outcomes regarding gait variables were not in accordance to the expected ones. Specifically: In the control group, the median values gait velocity changed from 16.5 cm/s to 19.1 cm/s, while in the study group these values changed from 20.5 cm/s to 21.9 cm/s. In the control group, the median values of the symmetries of the stance time, of the swing time and of the step length changed from 0.89 to 0.91, from 2.13 to 1.8 e from 1.16 to 1.46, respectivelly. In the study group, the median values of the symmetries of the stance time, of the swing time and of the step length changed from 0.87 to 0.88, from 2.03 to 1.73 e from 1.17 to 1.23, respectivelly. In the control group the median values of GDI of the PLL and of the NPLL changed from 54.7 to 57.5 and  from 42.0 to 36.8, respectivelly. In the study group the median values of GDI of the PLL and of the NPLL changed from 61.9 to 64.6 and  from 50.4 to 52.6, respectivelly.  The median values of GPS changed from 15.5 degrees to 11.3 degrees in the control group and from 11.3 degrees to 10.2 degress in the study group. The median values of the Barthel index changed from 80 to 98 points in the control group and from 63 to 90 in the study group. Therefore, these secunday outcome behave as expected.  
Effect of an oral health promotion intervention in primary health care
Implementation and evaluation of an oral health promotion intervention for children aged zero to five years
Experimental group: during the first 6 months, the caregivers of 150 children between 0 and 3 years old registred in Health Centers will receive a verbal guidance on oral health in early childhood at home; after, they will be gathered together in the Health Center to receive a collective guidance on oral health in early childhood; and will be exposed to a Community campaign on oral health in early childhood. After the first 6 months, the caregivers of the children will be invited to participate in seven sessions of psychoeducation to be held weekly through groups at the Health Center, this stage will last 12 months.

Control group: 150 children between 0 and 3 years of age will not receive any specific intervention (no treatment). Only children identified with tooth decay will be instructed to seek a dentist.
It will be included Primary Health Care Centers belonging to the urban area, that have family oral health team working for at least one year, at least 200 children from zero to five years old enrolled, offering postpartum care and childcare. All children enrolled in Primary Health Care Centers aged between 0 and 3 years old will be eligible to participate.
Primary Health Care Centers that are holding other interventions in oral or nutritional health, which have different work process will be excluded. It will be excluded children whose families wish to move in within six months of the baseline study.
Early childhood caries reduction will be assessed by oral examination in children using as criteria the index of decayed surfaces, extracted and restored due to caries (dmf-s) recommended by the World Health Organization (1997). Dental caries will be assessed in the baseline study and 18 months after implementation of the intervention. We expected to find a 25% reduction in the incidence of the mean number of carious surfaces (dmf-s index) in the experimental group compared to control.
Improvements on knowledge, behavior and quality of life related to children's oral health will be assessed through a questionnaire that will be applied to caregivers. These outcomes will be evaluated at baseline study, 6 months and 18 months after the beginning of the intervention. We expected to find an improvement of at least 20% in reporting these outcomes in the intervention group compared to the control group.
Impact of pelvic floor phisiotherapy during pregnancy in urinary incontinence and delivery. 
Relation among pelvic floor phisiotherapy during pregnancy, urinary incontinence and obstetric outcome. 
Treatment Group: 48 pregnat women will perform 12 sessions of pelvic floor muscle training under phisiotherapeutical supervision 1x per week between 12 and 32 weeks of pregnancy and 4 sessions of
perineal massage and elongation of pelvic floor muscles under phisiotherapeutical supervision 1x per week between 34 and 38 weeks.
Pregnant between 12 and 20 weeks of pregnancy; without previous deliveries.
Diabetes; fetal malformation unfeasible to vaginal delivery; urinary incontinence.
Reduction of 30% of post-partum urinary incontinence in study group related to control, identified as ICIQ-SF <1 in continent patients.
Reduction of perineal laceration identified through delivery register of each patient. 
Benefits aquatic physical therapy in the trunk control in children with cerebral palsy
Aquatic physical therapy in the trunk control in children with cerebral palsy: randomized clinical trial
Intervention group: 11  individuals with cerebral palsy will be submitted to the protocol of aquatic exercises with emphasis on trunk control. The protocol consists of 16 individual aquatic physical therapy sessions, each with a duration of 35 minutes, performed twice a week for 8 weeks. 

Control group: 11 individuals with cerebral palsy will be submitted to 16 individual conventional aquatic physiotherapy sessions, each with a duration of 35 minutes, twice a week for 8 weeks.
Clinical diagnosis of spastic diparesis type of Cerebral Palsy; level IV to the Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS); aged 4 years to 10 years and 11 months.
Uncooperative patients; unable to understand the proposed activities; undergoing orthopedic surgery or peripheral blocks less than 6 months ago.
Improved trunk control after 16 sessions of aquatic physical therapy protocol with emphasis to the trunk, verified by the increase in the final score of Trunk Control Mensuarement Scale (TCMS), from the observation of a variation of at least 5 % in pre measurements and post intervention.
Improved functionality after 16 sessions of aquatic physical therapy protocol with emphasis to the trunk, verified by the increase in the final score of the Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM -88), greater muscle activation by surface electromyography (EMG), increase in score of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) trunk, improved scores in flexometer Wells, increase the final score of the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ, PF-50), from the observation of a variation of at least 5 % in pre and post intervention measurements.
Evaluation of the effect of the treatment with airway positive pressure device on blood pressure levels of  hypertensive patients with sleep apnea syndrome.
Efficacy of continuous positive airway pressure on blood pressure control of resistant hypertensive patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.
Use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device during sleep for 6 months in 100 patients (intervention group). Other 100 patients (control group) will keep their usual anti-hypertensive treatment unchanged. 
Patients with resistant hypertension and moderate-severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome
Marked cognitive deficit, non-adherence to anti-hypertensive treatment
Clinic and ambulatory blood pressures. Measure: clinic and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring Expected outcome: reduction of blood pressures in treatment group (at least 5 mmHg).
Autonomic System Balance Measurements: heart rate variability during 24-hour Holter monitoring. Expected outcome: improvement in heart rate variability in the intervention group.
The Effectiveness of Acupuncture for patients with Tinnitus 
The Effectiveness of Acupuncture for patients with Tinnitus in relation to vitamin D and the amount of protein of IL6 and TNF Alpha activity: randomized crossover trial
The study will consist of two groups. One group will be called Acupuncture Group (AG) and will consist of 25 patients who will receive treatment by acupuncture combined with electrical stimulation in bilateral acupuncture points (electroacupuncture) .The unit is calibrated as follows: frequency of 10 Hz, maximum intensity supported by patient exposure time of each session 20 minutes. Acupuncture points are used in the vestibulocochlear line corresponding to a horizontal line segment length of 4 cm, whose middle point is located 1.5 cm above the ear apex.
The other group will be called Control Group (CG), composed of 25 patients who receive treatment with placebo acupuncture, with the needles inserted in a non-area corresponding to acupuncture points on the horizontal line segment 4 cm in length whose midpoint is located 2.5 cm above the apex of orelha.A puncture in acupoints will be performed with sterile disposable needle stainless steel, the sterilization will be made at the point of the site at the time of application.
Elderly individuals complaining of tinnitus of sensorineural origin; Men and women; Age 60 years or more.

Subjects presenting active cardiovascular disease;Cardiac pacemaker; Metallic prostheses or implants; Complaint of origin buzz for auditory; Working in a noisy environment or have a history of noise-induced hearing loss; Submit THI Questionnaire total score in less than thirty-six (36); Submit scores on the visual analog scale (VAS) less than five (5).
Reduction of Interleukin 6 levels observed in the automated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and improved levels of Vitamin D verified by amplification of the gene polymorphism of the VDR (vitamin D receptor) by polymerase chain reaction
Improvement in quality of life measured by Questionnaire Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI).  Improvement in tinnitus intensity, measured by the Visual Analog Scale instrument (EVA).
Influence of education and home care in chronic muscle pain in the face
Influence of education and self-care on pain and function related to chronic temporomandibular disorders: a randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial
All patients will make three monthly visits during the project development, when they will receive education about temporomandibular disorders and self-care instructions through lecture and illustrative material printed with the procedures which should be done daily at home. The sample is randomly divided into 3 groups according to the sequence of approaches which will be allocated. At the end of 3 months duration of the experiment, all participants in the sample will receive comprehensive approach including education and self-care instructions.
Groups:
Female gender
Aged between 18 and 70 years old
Presence of acute TMD.
If the individual is starting treatment for any painful condition as fibromyalgia, back pain, neck pain, or rheumatic diseases.
Reduction of pain intensity according to visual analog scale. In all the visits, the volunteer (patient) will be asked about their grade of pain during the past 30 days. The patient will mark in a line with 100 mm of lenght, the point which represents their pain. Then we will measure with a ruler the distance between this point and the beginning of the line, thus having a numerical value for your pain.
Change in the grade of  mandibular function impairment.  Before and after the treatment, volunteers will answer the questions of the RDC / TMD - Axis 2, Item 4. The answers to these questions provide a value ranging from 0 to 1, and the higher the value, the worse the mandibular function. So, we will compare the results at the beggining and at the end of the treatment to observe if there was improvement in mandibular functions (to speech, chewing, mouth movements in general).
Effects of supplementation with vitamin D  in patients with chronic kidney disease
Effects of supplementation with vitamin D3 in the cardiovascular system in patients with chronic kidney disease in predialysis
80 patients will be included and suplementation with vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) will follow the guidelines of clinical practice guide from the National Kidney Foundation (NFK) Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K / DOQI).According to the serum 25(OH)D3, participants will be divided into 2 groups: insufficient group [25(OH)D3 serum between 30-15 ng/mL) and deficient group [25(OH)D3 
Patients in stages 3 and 4 CKD (creatinine clearance between 59 and 15 mL/min/1.73m ²); Both genders; Aged between 18 and 75 years; Patients in the conservative treatment of CKD for at least 3 months; With serum 25 (OH) D3 
Patients with nephrotic syndrome, liver disease, neoplastic, autoimmune or infectious activity and were seropositive for HIV;
Patients who received any supplements or vitamin D analogues, corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs in the last 3 months;
Beneficial effect of vitamin D3 supplementation on the cardiovascular system. The cardiovascular parameters will be assessed by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring(ABPM) and helical computed tomography coronary carried out at the beginning and end of the study. It is hope that with suplementation reduce blood pressure levels, both systolic and diastolic.Regarding calcification is expected to occur coronary plaque stabilization or even regression. About the laboratory tests is expected to decrease PTH values, increase the values of 25(OH)D above 30ng/mL, and calcium values remain in the normal range.
Supplementation with vitamin D3 is expected to control secondary hyperparathyroidism, as assessed by laboratory tests of PTH-intact. About the PTHi, is expected to decrease yours values.It is also expected to present that there is no causal relationship between supplementation and hypercalcemia. Laboratory tests will be collected monthly until the sixth month of supplementation, after six months every two months.It is expected that the values calcium ??remain in normal range.
Oral cleaning in intensive care unit patients with photodynamic therapy
Oral hygiene in intensive care unit patients  using photodynamic therapy
The oral hygiene procedure in all patientes is going to be done with gaze soaked in the solution determined by randomization. 
Oral hygiene will be done in upper and lower hemiarcade, teeth and palate, buccal mucosa, mouth floor, tongue and lips (due to the dryness caused by the salivary reduction).
Intensive care unit patient with 0 to 24h oro-tracheal intubation; patients whose family agree with the participation on this study and sign the agreement term; both genders, above 18 years old
Reintubation; readmission in Intensive Care Unit (ICU); smokers and ex-smokers for less than 5 years
Reduction in oral bacteria amount in one intervention analysed by real-time PCR (polimerase chain reaction), comparing pre and post intervention samples 
Reduction in ventilator-associated pneumonia incidence in photodynamic therapy groups, doing daily the intervention and evaluating presence/absence of pneumonia after 5-8 days of treatment by analysis of medical cards
Evaluation Forms of Anestesia for Human Reproduction
Comparative Study Between Two Anesthetic Techniques For Follicular Puncture Guided By Transvaginal Ultrasound
GROUP 1: 30 patients; deep sedation by Fentanyl(1 mcg / kg) intravenously, followed by the administration of Propofol at a dose of bolus – 50 milligrams (50mg) intravenously, in titrated dose, registering the repeated values depending on the patient´s movement and the sedation degree. Subsequently will be administrated oxygen by nasal catheter and assisted ventilation with a face mask, in case of oxygen saturation levels fall below 92%, should be recorded the number of times this event occurs.
GROUP 2: 30 patients; minimal sedation by Midazolam(0.075 mg/kg), associated to Remifentanil in continually at an initial dose of 0.25 micograms/kilo/minute (0.25 mcg/kg/min) and infiltration with 2 milliliters (ml) of lidocaine at 1%, in the vaginal fornix, in two points where the needle will be introduced to follicular puncture. In the cases of deep sedation with respiratory frequency less than 8 breaths per minute and oxygen saturation below 92%, or in case of heart rate below 45 beats per minute, it will be reduced infusion rate of remifentanil in 0.05 mcg/kg/min, followed by administration of oxygen by nasal catheter and finishing and turning off the remifentanil after the procedure. All the patients will be monitored with pulse oximeter, electrocardiogram, and arterial pressure non-invasive.
Women with the presence of at least one follicle bigger than 14 millimeters, to be punctured; Aged between 20 to 40 years old; with a diagnosis of infertility patients who attempted to spontaneous pregnancy for at least 12 months with regular sexual activity and without the use of contraceptives, however, failed to achieve pregnancy; Body Mass Index (BMI) between 20 and 30; Surgical risk by American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) 1 or 2.
Incomplete medical records; Carriers of chromosomal diseases; donor oocytes; Pathologies associeted with surgical risk ASA III, IV, V and VI; Presence of known allergy to anesthethic drugs used in this study

Finding difference between the number of punctured follicles in both groups, when subjected to different anesthetic techniques (sedation with propofol and fentanyl compared to sedation with midazolam and remifentanil, paracervical block) defines the value of standard deviation of 5.4 punctured follicles; difference of 4.3 punctured follicles to be detected; significance level of 5%, a power of 80% and a loss of approximately 10% (ARMITAGE & BERRY, 1987; Hammadhen et al, 1999).
Evaluate the vital signs parameters: heart rate, oxygen saturation, arterial pressure non-invasive. Compare importante questions in ambulatory anestesia: evaluate the Aldrete-Kroulik criteria in two and five minutes, and the required time to reach values of 10, this is a score that evaluates the degree of awakening of the patient so she can be released from the anesthetic recovery. 
Effect of diacerein on kidney function, glucose and blod fat metabolism alteration and acute inflamation indicators in type 2 diabetic patients with kidney disease 
Effect of diacerein on renal function, metabolic control and acute inflamatory parameters in type 2 diabetic patients with nephropaty  - randomized clinical trial 
There are two groups:

Experimental group 1: 35 patients with dia
Patients from 30 to 80 years old, with type 2 diabetic with microalbuminuria. macroalbuniria and or diminished glomerular filtration rate (GFR - stages 1 and 2); HbA1c from 7.5 to 10%; in regular use of inhibitor Angiotensin Converting Enzyme or Angiotensin Receptor Blocker; Body mass index bellow 40kg / m²; do not make use of pioglitazone; Use of antihyperglycemic medications; Acceptance to participate and to sign informed consent;  Patients seen in the outpatient medical clinic of the Faculdade de Medicina of  Universidade de Passo Fundo

Pregnant and lactating women; presence of chronic inflammatory diseases such as arthritis, colitis; Infectious Disease like  tuberculosis; use of anti-inflammatory drugs for more than five days in the last three months; previous diagnosis of pancreatitis; hypersensitivity to reigns or its correlates (laxative); Smoking; severe liver disease (transaminases major than 2.5 times the upper limit of normal); severe gastrointestinal disease; participation in another trial in the past 30 days; failure to follow the research protocol requirements
The primary outcomes were reduction ? 15% in ACR, any reduction in GFR, improvement of metabolic control (defined as A1C <7% and fasting glucose <126?mg/dL), reduction in plasma levels of IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-?, increase in plasma levels of IL-10, and reduction in blood pressure. 
Secondary outcomes included reduction in serum levels of fasting insulin, adiponectin, leptin, and selectin.
Treatment of severe stroke guided by parameters regarding brain protection and neurological recovery
Multimodal monitoring, inflammation and neuroregeneration in subarchnoid hemorrhage
Twelve patients will be selected according to the inclusion and the exclusion criteria. All patients will follow the same protocol of treatment. After clinical stabilization and aneurysm occlusion, the catheters of external ventricular drain, brain microdialysis and brain tissue oxygenation will be inserted. Next, the electrodes for electroencephalographic monitoring will be placed on scalp. The external ventricular drain will be used for continuous monitoring of the intracranial pressure and of the brain tissue oxygenation, as well as for CSF collection in the days of catheter placement and removal, and for CSF drainage if necessary for intracranial hypertension treatment. Electroencephalographic and brain tissue oxygenation monitoring will be continuous; the measurement of lactate/pyruvate ratio by brain microdialysis will be carried out hourly. For evaluation of vasospasm, Lindegaard index will be accessed by transcranial Doppler daily. The criteria for removal of the intracranial catheters are: 1) central nervous system infection; 2) three continuous days without sedation and without any alteration in the multimodality monitoring parameters, 3) permanence for seven days. The multimodality monitoring parameters to be controlled are: intracranial pressure 
Patients of 18 to 65 years of age; have been hospitalized at Clinical Hospital, University of São Paulo Medical School within the first 72 h after the first hemorrhage; presenting Hunt and Hess grade IV or V; presenting anterior circulation aneurysm. 
Having undergone some neurosurgical procedure at another facility (e.g. placement of an external ventricular drain) before admission at Clinical Hospital, University of São Paulo Medical School; presenting severe systemic disease; presenting either a Glasgow coma scale score of 3 or pathological posture accompanied by bilateral mydriasis with fixed pupils; unavailable information regarding level of consciousness previously to sedation.
The primary outcome is the mortality in 90 days after bleeding. Each biomarker mentioned below is a parameter. For each biomarker, a correlation analysis regarding the primary outcome will be carried out.  The primary outcome regarding each of the 12 patients included in this project will be evaluated in relation to the presence or absence of altered parameter until 90 days after bleeding. For the continuously measured parameters, the parameter will be regarded as altered if the value of the parameter remained out of the normal range for more than 30 minutes at least once.  For the intermittently measured parameters, a parameter will be regarded altered if at least one measurement was out of the normal range.  The type of parameter, the parameters to be evaluated, the frequency of evaluation of the parameters, and the normal values of the parameters are, respectively:  1) Clinical data, body temperature, continuous measurement, altered if > or = 37.5°C; 2) Physiological data, intracranial pressure, continuous measurement, altered if > 20 mmHg; 3) Physiological data, brain temperature, continuous measurement, altered if > or = 37.5°C; 4) Physiological data, brain tissue oxygenation, continuous measurement, altered if < 20 mmHg; 5) Physiological data, metabolic stress, measurement hourly by brain microdialysis, altered if lactate/pyruvate ratio > 40; 6) Physiological data, decrease in alpha/delta ratio > 50%, as measured by electroencephalogram; 7) Physiological data, Lindegaard index (middle cerebral artery velocity / internal carotid artery velocity), daily measurement by transcranial Doppler, altered if > 6; 8) Pro-inflammatory markers in the blood (each marker will be analyzed separately as a predictor); tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interferon gama (IFN-gama), interleukins (IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-6), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2, MMP-9), endothelin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), C reactive protein (CPR); blood collection in the days of external ventricular drain placement and removal, and 7, 14, 21, 28 and 90 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage; normal value for each predictor is specified in datasheet of the immunoenzymatic assay kit; 9) Pro-inflammatory markers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (each marker will be analyzed separately as a predictor); the same as in item 8; CSF collection during external ventricular drain placement and removal; the normal value will be defined from 15 CSF samples collected due to suspicious of neurological disease (e.g. meningitis, polyradiculoneuritis or subarachnoid hemorrhage) but whose biochemical and cytological results were normal; 10) Anti-inflammatory marker in the blood, IL-10, frequency of collection and value defined as normal according to item 8; 11) Anti-inflammatory marker in the CSF, IL-10, frequency of collection and value defined as normal according to item 9; 12) Neuroregeneration-related markers in the blood (each marker will be analyzed separately as a predictor); brain derived neurotrophic factor, epithelial growth factor, fibroblast growth factor-2, erythropoietin, granulocyte colony stimulating factor, monocyte chemoattractant  protein-1, stromal cell-derived factor-1, vascular endothelial growth factor; frequency of collection and values defined as normal according to item 8; 13) Neuroregeneration-related markers in the CSF (each marker will be analyzed separately as a predictor); the same markers as in item 12; frequency of collection and values defined as normal according to item 9. 
The secondary outcome is the functional result in 90 days after bleeding. The functional result will be referred to as good prognosis or poor prognosis. Good prognosis corresponds to a score in the modified Rankin scale equal to 0-3. Poor prognosis corresponds to a score in the modified Rankin scale equal to 4-6. The biomarkers to be analyzed as predictors of the secondary outcome are the same biomarkers used for the primary outcome. The analysis of the biomarkers regarding the secondary outcome will be the same as that regarding the primary outcome. 
Dexamethasone effect on the duration of interescalenic brachial plexus block guided by ultrasound for videoarthroscopic shoulder surgery
Dexamethasone effect on the duration of interescalenic brachial plexus block guided by ultrasound for videoarthroscopic shoulder surgery
use of dexamethasone in brachial plexus block guided by ultrasound to prolong the analgesia time and reduce incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Patients will be randomly assign to the control group (C group, n = 20), the dexamethasone intravenous group (Div group, n = 20), or the dexamethasone perineural group (Dpn group, n = 20) just before arrival in the operating room. All three groups will be blocked with 20 ml of 0.5% ropivacaine (Naropin?, Astrazeneca, Brazil), (0.75% 20ml plus isotonic saline 10ml, used 20 ml) according to the study group. Group C was administered 1 ml of normal saline. Group Div was administered 1 ml of normal saline plus 4mg of intravenous dexamethasone (Dexametasona?, EMS, Brazil). Group Dpn was administered a 1 ml of dexamethasone (4 mg) perineural  (Dexametasona?, EMS, Brazil) (total amount of 21 ml in each group).
patients submitted to videoarthroscopy shoulder surgery
patients under 18 years old, previous history of allergy to any used medication in the procedure and diabetes (because of potential hyperglicemia)
The time duration will be analyzed sensory and motor block, Visual Analogic Scale of pain, as well as the presence of nausea or vomiting in the first 48 hours after surgery.  It is expected, as shown in other studies , that dexamethasone prolongs the blocking time , improve the referred pain and reduce the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting .
the use of rescue medications, the presence of nausea or vomiting in the first 48 hours after surgery.
Pilates versus conventional physical therapy for patients with chronic low back pain
Comparison between Pilates and conventional physical therapy for treatment of patients with  nonspecific chronic low back pain: randomized controlled trial.
Pilates method (mat and apparatus) is the experimental group (n=31). The activities will be practised twice a week, for 45 minutes (morning or afternoon, according to the convinience of the participant). The exercises are those that strengthen
the abdominal and and paraspinal muscles, 
Medical diagnosis of chronic low back pain
Aged 18 to 55 years
Protrusion of intervertebral disc Scoliosis
Spondylolisthesis 
The primary outcome measures will be the functionality and pain. For the functionality, it will be used the Roland-Morris/Brazil questionnaire and for pain, the visual analogue scale. The measure one will be done in the beginning of the study and the measure two,in the end of study, after 8 weeks.
Flexibility, muscle strength, fatigue and  muscle endurance. For the flexibility will be used the sit-to-reach test. For the muscle strength of the back extensors will be used a load cell fixed in the wall. The participant will sit on a leg extensor chair and pull the load cell. The fatigue will be undegone in the same position, but it will be used a surface electromyography with electrodes in L5 region, bilaterally. Regarding muscular resistance, it will be done through the Sorensen test that consists the participant lying prone and perform the back extension.
Quality of life of people with eye disease elevated intraocular pressure and knowledge about the disease before and after practice health education
Glaucomatous life quality and knowledge about the disease before and after practice health education
Experimental group: 35 glaucomatous, with low knowledge about their eye disease participate in health education activities, systematized in a dialogical and interactive lesson in conversation wheel using as a teaching resource an anatomical eye and printed material, with average duration of 1 2 hours. The content of educational activities will be organized in order to: educate the glaucomatous to the significance of the disease; educate the patient about the importance of treatment; advise on the correct use of eye drops and; encourage self-care. Control group: 35 glaucomatous, with low knowledge about their eye disease will continue to receive the usual care in ophthalmologic surgery and will not participate in the systematic educational activity in dialogical and interactive lesson in conversation circle aiming to increase knowledge about the disease and self-care . After three months apart, glaucomatous of both groups will be assessed on the degree of knowledge about the disease through a new assessment by applying a questionnaire to evaluate the impact of activities. This study will be conducted at the Glaucoma Project, a national stamp program, based at the Santa Casa Montes Claros Eyes / MG.
glaucomatous with 40% accuracy in disease knowledge questionnaire; reside in Montes Claros; both genders; aged between 18 and 70 years.
glaucomatous unable to answer an evaluation questionnaire of knowledge about the disease; mental impairment with cognitive impairment; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Increased initial success rate of 40% in the questionnaire on disease knowledge to 80% after the educational activity intervention.
Impact of educational activity for glaucoma.
Changes in functional exercise functional capacity, body composition and quality of life of menopausal women
Changes of a physical activity program based on the protocol of functional training on functional abilities, body composition and quality of life of menopausal women
The functional exercise group of 40 women will undergo 16 weeks of training on the basis of a functional protocol, which will be explored capacities strength, proprioception, agility and coordination, and aerobic exercise (walking). Activities will be developed in form composed of 11 exercises (bases) with fixed interval of 30 seconds between the exercises lasting 30 seconds initially (each season) where every 4 weeks increases the duration by 10 seconds (overhead) circuit. At the end of 16 weeks duration for each stimulus will be 70 seconds. Each training session will last up to 90 minutes, being held 3 times a week. The intensity control will be done by subjective exertion scale (Borg scale) . In all the training sessions will be measured blood pressure of the participants in order to identify situations of abnormality of blood pressure. If this situation is detected, the student will be instructed not to conduct training for that session.
The control group (no treatment) also consists of 40 women will be followed for 16 weeks and were instructed not to engage in a systematic program of physical activity.
Female volunteers, aged between 45 and 65 years; present in the menopausal period without menstruation for 1 year or more; possess a medical certificate to perform the tests required and participate in the training program
Present physical limitations or any health problems that prevent the implementation of the evaluation or bodily practices, accumulate three consecutive unexcused absences or 4 unexcused absences during the month of intervention.
Reduction in percentage of body fat will be measured by DEXA equipment (data being collected).
Note the improvements in functional capacity (assessed by the battery of motor tests AAHPERD) and quality of life assessed by SF-36.
The effect of video games and conventional physiotherapy in the physical fitness of elderly
Analysis of the intervention on physical fitness of elderly San Pedro neighborhood , Teresina, Piaui : a comparative study
The sample was intentionally composed of 30 elderly women aged 60 to 74 years , attending the active community centers in Teresina . Two groups , in which 15 volunteers underwent therapy with the Xbox 360 ( Kinect )( G1 ) , and 15 underwent functional training circuit(G2), were randomized both groups underwent 8 sessions , 2 times per week for 40 minutes. data collection consisted of interviews and the application of the Time Up and Go Test Stationary Marching 2 min and Berg Balance Scale tests, conducted at the beginning and after one month of intervention
Of age or over 60 years , a medical certificate with authorization for physical activity , participating constantly in the center of coexistence and accept volunteer study .
Motor or cognitive disabilities that prevented the activity .
Improved static balance verified by the Berg Balance Scale , improved dynamic balance by Time Up And Go Test , and improvement in functional mobility by minute step test 2 minutes , from the observation of a variation of at least 95% confidence in the statistical significance test.
Improved physical fitness of elderly involved in the work , assessed with the Berg Scale and the Time Up and Go Test , and Gait stationary 2 minutes , with a statistical significance of p < 0.05 in post intervention.
Oral Care and Pneumonia in Institutionalized Elderly
Efficacy of Oral Hygiene Practices on Aspiration Pneumonia Oral Pathogens in Elderly Nursing Home Residents
Isolated mechanic measures of oral hygiene was compared to mechanic measures associated with 0,12% chlorhexidine gluconate, in elderly living in Juvino Barreto Institute, Long-term care institution for the elderly in Natal - RN.

In group A, there were only mechanical oral hygiene measures, which consisted of brushing the teeth with extra soft toothbrush without toothpaste, cleaning the tongue with tongue scraper and cleaning of the oral soft tissues with sterile gauze pads soaked in saline.
Being elderly (older than 60 years old) and to live at the long-term care facility selected for the research
Diagnosis of neoplastic or infectious disease during the study stages; Inability to breathe or feed by natural means (dependence on mechanical ventilators or feeding tubes); Need for antimicrobial therapy or hospitalization in the three months prior to intervention; Dependence on immunosuppressive drugs; Diagnosis of Sjögren
Clinical behavior of oral microbiota, assessed by visual analysis of the accumulation of tongue coating (categories: present or absent) by the examiner of the study
Age (As of 60 years, given in years)  gender (male and female)  Oral health conditions: - Number of teeth present (0-32) - DMF-d (index that corresponds to the sum of number of decayed, missing and filled. It ranges from 0 to 32) - Use of dentures (yes or no) - oral hygiene (method and frequency) - Changes in the soft tissues (yes or no. type to be specified, when present)  Present systemic comorbidities (cerebrovascular diseases, neurological disorders, diabetes and arthritis, among others)  continued use of drugs  degree of functional independence (independent, partially dependent or totally dependent)  Time of study (baseline, time zero and time fifteen) .
Clinical Trial comparative with and without use of Nimotuzumab for the treatment of Cervical Cancer with radiotherapy and Cisplatin
A Phase III, Multicenter, Randomized, Two-arm Clinical Study: An Investigational Arm Containing Nimotuzumab in Combination with Radiation Therapy and Cisplatin, and A Control Arm with Radiation Therapy and Cisplatin for the Treatment of Stages IIb to IVa Uterine Cervical Carcinoma
Two arms:
177 patients will be randomized by internet in validated electronic system (CRFe) to the investigational arm with nimotuzumab I.V. 200mg/week per 16 weeks in combination with radiation therapy (45 Gy, 1,8 Gy /day, five days per week, per 5 weeks) and cisplatin I.V. 40 mg/m2/week per 6 weeks.
Be 18 years of age or older; have a histologically confirmed diagnosis of stage IIB to IVA squamous cell carcinoma, or adenocarcinoma, or cervical adenosquamous carcinoma, according to the IFGO system; life expectancy longer than 12 weeks; have measurable disease, according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria, or at least assessable by imaging and/or gynecological examination (imaging from up to six weeks prior to randomization will be accepted); indication for definitive treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, according to the investigator’s opinion; performance status ? 2, according to the ECOG criteria; adequate bodily functions; have signed the informed consent form.
Involvement of para-aortic lymph nodes, by radiological and/or surgical staging, according to the investigator’s opinion; presence of severe co-morbidities, which –  according to the opinion of the investigator – will put the patient at a significantly higher risk or will impair compliance with the protocol; presence of neurological or psychiatric diseases or other significant conditions compromising compliance; known hypersensitivity or allergy to the study treatments; non-controlled hypercalcemia (
Progression-free survival (PFS), measured by radiological and clinical-gynecological examinations, as well as by biopsy, if indicated, performed 10 weeks after treatment end, and assessed at the response evaluation visit (RE) and every 12 (±2) weeks during two years. The RECIST 1.1 criteria will be used to measure tumor progression.
Overall survival will be measured from treatment start to death. Disease-free survival in 2 years will be measured from treatment start to the date of the first imaging scan with registered distant lesion or patient death. Objective response and objective response rate according to radiological and clinical examinations  Recurrence-free survival in 2 years. Local control of disease in 2 years according to radiological examination and will follow the algorithm for the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1). Frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events.  Frequency of severe treatment-emergent adverse events, according case report form registry. Quality of life according to the QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CX24 (EORTC) questionnaires. 
Evaluation of Oral Supplementation With Fish Oil Nutritional Status, Immunity and Inflammation of Patients With Stomach Cancer
Impact of Oral supplementation with omega-3 in the Nutritional Status, Immune and Inflammatory Profile of Patients with Gastric Cancer
Patients will be divided into 2 groups, an intervention group and a control group.
The intervention group will be composed of 53 patients who will receive the nutritional supplement high caloric and protein liquid formula for oral or enteral nutrition with omega-3. The supplement will be split in two steps of 220ml per day for a period of 30 days, which adds to each patient an additional of 600kcal and 27g protein/day. Before and after supplementation, patients will be assessed for nutritional status, according to food intake (24-hour recall), weight, height, skinfold thickness and bioelectrical impedance. Two blood samples will be carried out (at the first visit and after 30 days) in order to assess the biochemical (albumin and prealbumin), immunological, as CD4, CD8 and CD56 and inflammatory parameters, like CRP and IL-6.
Target sample size is 106 patients.
Patients with gastric cancer. 
Patients with Chronic Hepatic Insufficiency  (CHILD-PUGH C); With HIV Virus or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); Congestive Heart Failure Record; Chronic Kidney Disease; Diabetes Mellitus.
Patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiotherapy already started.
The weight gain in the 30-day period, verified by weight before and after intervention , on a digital balance, from a variation of at least two kilos between measurements.
The lean mass gain in the 30-day period, verified by bioelectrical impedance before and after intervention from a range of 3% between measurements.
Analysis of the results obtained in the post-operative surgery where an implant replaces the knee joint
Clinical analysis of new knee prothesis
150 patients of both gender, male and female, diagnostic with knee osteoarthritis, will hold a surgery where a specific implant to this area of the body, replace the knee joint, ie, the implant will help the patient to the next moves or like a normal knee. These patients will be followed by a team of physiotherapists and doctors for two years and were analyzed by stipulated periods, tests and exams to check the result of surgery
Healthy participants; both sexes;  60 to 70 aged years; with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis of grade IV and V according to Ahlback classification modified by Keyes; not have performed arthroplasty knee surgery earlier; failure of nonsurgical treatment (medication or physical therapy); not psychiatric disorders; not have diseases that have bone loss; not have chronic diseases including rheumatic diseases; not an alcoholic.
Participants with serious injuries in the operated knee; have deep infection; deep vein thrombosis without control with medical treatment; leaving treatment or follow-up; participant who no longer wish to perform the stipulated protocol; participant
Clinical evaluations will be collected using a questionnaire validated in the literature during the stipulated monitoring periods before surgery and during the two years; Functional capacity is checked on the Knee Society Score, this method evaluates the performance in running exercises and mobility; Quality of life assessment with the SF-36 questionnaire, which analyzes the functioning, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, emotional and mental health. Radiographic analysis will bring success prosthesis information, identifying the device migration, breakage or device failure and wear of the components of the devices. Thus both methods verifies the presence or absence of faults of the devices and clinical complications.
No additional surgery on the joint in question; Statistically significant improvement clinic; Significant change in quality of life assessed by the SF-36 questionnaire; Significant change of physical disability assessed by questionnaire Knee Society Score; Secondary operations (revision, removal, re-operation) related to the device, procedure related, unrelated.
Evaluation of intestinal hormones in healthy patients and in obese patients with and without type 2 diabetes through isoglycemic clamp before and after stomach reduction surgery
Evaluation of the incretin effect in healthy patients and in obese patients with and without type 2 diabetes through Isoglycemic Clamp before and after surgery (Biliopancreatic Diversion) or drug (Inhibitor of Dipeptidyl Peptidase IV [DPP-IV])
Controlled study: one experimental group and two control groups. Experimental group: 10 obese grade I and II patients with type 2 diabetes who underwent biliopancreatic diversion surgery. Evaluated preoperatively, in the first month and in the twelfth month after surgery. Eutrophic control group: 13 normal weight and normal glucose tolerant participants which were not subjected to any intervention. Evaluated only once. Obese control group: 10 obese grade I and II normal glucose tolerant participants which were not subjected to any intervention. Evaluated only once. The evaluation of all participants consisted in performing isoglycemic clamp to calculate the incretin effect.
Age between 30 and 60 years, type 2 diabetic patients without medication for diabetes or who are not making use for at least 3 months; weight variation of less than 5% in the last three months; ability to understand the study procedures and voluntarily agree to participate in the study and signed an informed consent form.    

Age under 30 and over 60, patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin, type 2 diabetics with poorly controlled diabetes (glycated hemoglobin A1c greater than 8.5%), BMI less than 18.5 kg / m²; history of liver disease such as cirrhosis or chronic active hepatitis; changing functions renal function (creatinine greater than 1.4 mg / dl in women and greater than 1.5 mg / dl in men) and hepatic ALT and / or AST 3 times above normal; recent history of malignancy (less than 5 years), use of injectable or oral steroids for more than 14 consecutive days in the past 3 months, or with some drug side effects on glucose metabolism.
No statistical difference was found between the incretin effect of different groups.
Improvement on incretin effect one year after biliopancreatic diversion surgery assessed by isoglycemic clamp test.
Study to evaluate the response to treatment with the medication pasireotide LAR and the expression of the substances AIP and miR-34a in patients with acromegaly
Prospective, non-randomized, phase II study to assess the AIP and miR-34a expressions and the response to pasireotide LAR treatment in acromegaly patients
Treatment with pasireotide LAR
Age between 18 and 80 years; clinical indication of surgery as part of the treatment; laboratory and clinical confirmation of acromegaly; Signature of written informed consent.

Contraindications to surgery due to high surgical risk; Previous radiotherapy for pituitary adenoma treatment; Presence of AIP mutation; Medical treatment with somatostatin analogues, dopamine agonists or GH antagonist before surgery; Patients with compression of the optic chiasm causing any visual field defect that requires surgical intervention; Diabetic patients with poor glycaemic control as evidenced by HbA1c 
Comparison of the percentage of patients with low AIP expression and with high AIP expression that achieve normalization of GH (basal GH <1.0 mcg/L) and IGF-I (normal age-adjusted IGF-I) or biochemical response (at least 50% decrease in GH and/or IGF-I levels) after six months of treatment with pasireotide LAR. 
Comparison of miR-34a levels between patients that achieve normalization of GH (basal GH <1.0 mcg/L) and IGF-I (normal age-adjusted IGF-I) after six months of treatment with pasireotide LAR and those that did not achieve; Positive correlation between the AIP score at immunohistochemistry and the reduction of GH and IGF-I levels after six months pasireotide LAR treatment; Elevation of AIP expression (measured by Western-blot) in cell lines treated with pasireotide in comparison with those not treated; Toxicity will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicology Criteria Adverse Events version 4 (NCI-CTCAE v.4.03)  
Effect of physical exercise on strength, muscle mass,  movement, functional capacity and inflammation in sarcopenic and non sarcopenic elderly  
Effect of resistance training in muscle strength, muscle mass, mobility, functional capacity and biochemicals parameters in sarcopenic and non sarcopenic elderly
Treatment groups will be randomized at random and will consist of 66 individuals divided into sarcopenic and not sarcopenic to participate in a program of physical training with resistance training with elastic tubes or weight machines and a control group, who will attend only the evaluations.
resistance training with elastic tubes: 22 subjects (11 and 11 sarcopenic not sarcopenic) will be submitted to training with elastic tubes three times a week with rest interval between 24 to 72 hours. The training will run periodized and progressively. The distribution of training driving dynamics will be in three progressive stages: [Phase 1 (1st to 2nd week: 2 sets of 12 to 15 repetition maximum (RM), 60-second rest interval between sets); Phase 2 (3rd to 6th week: 3 sets of 12 to 15 RM, 90-second rest interval between sets); Phase 3 (7th to 12th week: 3 sets of 8 to 12 RM, 90-second rest interval between sets). The training will last for 3 months.
Individuals must be aged 60 or over; both genders; be clinically stable.
Inability to get around; being bedridden; musculoskeletal dysfunction.
Increased muscle strength of the patients in both resistance training and maintenance programs in the control group; Verified by digital dynamometer; from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Improve of insulin resistance more evident in patients elastic resistance group compared to conventional group and maintenance of the control group; verified by colorimetric method of blood analysis; from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Quality of Life in Patients who underwent radiotherapy
Quality of Life in Patients undergoing Radiotherapy
"
Cancer patients undergoing radiation treatment, both genders, aged 30 to 80 years.
Patients with motor change that prevented them from practicing the activities planned; severe to moderate anemia, bone metastases, severe thrombocytopenia, diabetes, severe heart disease, severe lung disease, with active infections; oxygen saturation less than or equal to 80% in the walk test 6 minutes.
Improves the quality of life measured by the SF-36 questionnaire, validated in Portuguese, at baseline and at the end of 20 sessions for individuals in the intervention group and the control group.
Presence of complications during the study as deep vein thrombosis, pneumonia, muscle pain, infection, injury to soft tissue (ligament, muscle and joint), and thus recorded in daily monitoring.
Effects of laser therapy on the masseter of children with spastic cerebral palsy
Effects of photobiomodulation on the masseter of children with spastic cerebral palsy
The experiemental group will be composed of 30 children diagnosed with cerebral palsy whose caregivers to report difficulty in cleaning by decreased mouth opening, locking utensils used for food and story plot in oral tissues.

Two ultrasound examinations of the muscles masseter left right will be realized. The first before the photobiostimulation and the second after 6 weeks.
Cerebral palsy diagnosis of spastic type;
with or without complaints of pain mouth opening; 
Patients diagnosed with cerebral palsy spastic type associated with syndromes or other disabling condition.
The expected outcome is to change the thickness of the masseter muscle.  The method used to check the expected outcome will be the sonographic examination of the thickness of the masseter muscle  The parameter to be used to evaluate the occurrence of the outcome of the verification is a variation of at least 5% in pre and post-intervention measurements by means of ultrasound method of the masseter
The expected outcome is to reduce the pain described by the caregiver.  Visual analog scale (VAS) is the method used to verify the expected outcome.  The parameter to be used to evaluate the occurrence of the outcome will be based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements, checked by visual analog scale (VAS) by caregiver report.
Clinical Trial of Telavancin Versus Standard Intravenous Therapy in the Treatment of Subjects with Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia Including Infective Endocarditis
A Phase 3 Multicenter, Randomized, Open-label, Clinical Trial of Telavancin Versus Standard Intravenous Therapy in the Treatment of Subjects with Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia Including Infective Endocarditis
Experimental group: In total, 124 subjects will receive Telavancin, 7.5 mg/kg, intravenously (IV) in 100 to 250 mL over 60 (+/- 10) minutes, once every 24 hours for 2 to 6 weeks. For Brazil, 6 subjects are expected.
Control group: In total, 124 subjects will receive standard IV therapy, administered for 2 to 6 weeks: Vancomycin (recommended dose of 15 mg/kg IV q12 hours); Daptomycin (recommended dose of 6 mg/kg IV q24 hours); Anti-staphylococcal or a protocol-specified ?-lactam antibiotic with anti-staphylococcal activity (ie, nafcillin, oxacillin, cloxacillin) recommended dose of 2 gm IV q4 hours or 12 gm IV continuous infusion over 24 hours; or Cefazolin (recommended dose of 2 gm IV q8 hours). For Brazil, 5 subjects are expected. 
Male or female at least 18 years old at the time of consent; subject has signed an ICF; at least one blood culture positive for S. aureus obtained within 48 hours before randomization; subject must have at least one of the following signs or symptoms of bacteremia: temperature up or equal to 38.0°C, white blood cell (WBC) count up to 10,000 or less than 4,000 cells/µL, or up to 10% immature neutrophils (bands) regardless of total peripheral WBC count; tachycardia (heart rate up to 90 bpm); tachypnea (respiratory rate up to 20 breaths/min); hypotension (systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg); signs and symptoms of localized catheter-related infection; subject must, at enrollment, have either 1) known right-sided infective endocarditis by Modified Duke’s Criteria, 2) known complicated bacteremia, demonstrated as signs or symptoms of metastatic foci of S. aureus infection, or 3) at least one of the following risk factors for complicated bacteremia: a central venous catheter (CVC) in the internal jugular or subclavian vein; any CVC considered to be the source of the infection, demonstrated by inflammation or purulent drainage from the CVC insertion site; presence of a long-term intravascular catheter, must be removed within 3 days after enrollment; new or diastolic cardiac murmur; community onset bacteremia; pathogen known to be MRSA at enrollment; duration of symptoms up or equal to 2 days at time of presentation (prior to start of antibiotic therapy); skin exam findings suggesting acute systemic infection; willing to receive intravenous antibiotics for the duration of treatment; expected survival of at least 3 months; female subjects must be non-pregnant and non-lactating; if sexually active, must agree to use a highly effective method of birth control with partners of childbearing potential during the study and for 1 month after study drug dosing; considered likely to comply with the study procedures and to return for scheduled evaluations.
Treatment with any potentially effective (anti-staphylococcal) systemic antibiotic for more than 48 hours within 7 days before randomization; requirement or anticipated requirement of potentially effective (anti-staphylococcal) non-study systemic antibiotics during the study; presence of an infection source that will not be managed or controlled within the first 3 days of study drug treatment; presence of prosthetic cardiac valve or cardiac device; known or suspected left-sided infective endocarditis (LIE), according to Modified Duke Criteria; known or suspected osteomyelitis or meningitis; prior episode of invasive S. aureus infection within the past 30 days; infecting pathogen with confirmed (prior to enrollment) non-susceptibility to telavancin; or confirmed non-susceptibility to daptomycin and a vancomycin MIC 
Clinical success or failure at Test of Cure (TOC) visit determined by the investigator and adjudicated by the blinded IEAC. The point estimate and confidence interval (CI) for the treatment difference will be calculated using the Mantel-Haenszel approach.
Not applicable.
Posture and mobility in adolescents federated in basketball.
Postural and mobility characterization of adolescent basketball athletes.
During one year (March 2009-March 2010) the sample was collected.  They were measured by photogrammetry, goniommetry, by the antropometric characteristics, the sports questionnaire and handedness.There were 38 adolescents in the control group and 36 basketball federated athletes.
The inclusion criteria was based on adolescents aging between 12 to 16, male adolescents. The athlete group was federated exclusively to basketball (at least 10 hours per week). 
The exclusion criteria was based on orthopedic, respiratory, rheumatic and neuromuscular diseases. And the athletes shouldn’t be federated to another sport. 
Primary Outcome :The postural variables evaluated by photogrammetry on athlete and control group were:  Front Plane posterior view: lateral inclination of the spine, assimetry horizontal of scapulas , posture of the scapula Front view previous Plan: horizontal alignment of the head and horizontal alignment of the acromion  Sagittal view of right and left: horizontal alignment of the head, shoulder posture, horizontal alignment of the pelvis,vertical alignment of the trunk, vertical alignment of the body, kyphosis thoracic and lordosis lumbar   
Secondary Outcome 1: Mobility was evaluated using goniommetry (shoulder, elbow and wrist) in the upper limbs in the Control and Athlete Group.  
Study of adherence to smoking cessation treatment in two groups of patients, one with treatment determined by physician and the other with a patient participation in decisions .
Study of adherence to smoking cessation treatment in two groups of patients, one with treatment determined by physician and the other with a shared decision.
Intervention group consist of 50 participants. Before starting treatment, intervention group participants will receive an educational session for 1 hour and 30 minutes using visual audio material and presentation in PowerPoint slides about therapy types, and discussion of their questions about therapies types  for the smoking treatment , risks and benefits of each of them, so they can discuss what feels most appropriate and with physicians decides on what kind to be adopted, this process will be done through leaflets designed with 3 steps of shared decision making that are 1) election of therapy type , 2) discussion with physicians, and 3) conclusion with one result (choice of therapy type). In the case of not having a result a third physician, a psychiatrist, participated in a second discussion and if not yet have a result the patient passed to control group. The types of therapy to be chosen will be made available by INCA (National Cancer Institute) which are 1) cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) weekly (1 hour y 30 minutes weekly) without medications or 2) weekly CBT with the use of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT ), available in 21, 14 and 7 mg nicotine patches for daily use, reducing 7mg every 4 weeks or bupropion 150 mg in tablets, 1 tablet per day for 3 days and them 2 tablets daily for 12 weeks.
Having diagnosis of dependence Tobacco according to the DSM-5 V and the 
Patients with a mental disorder that compromises the decision making about treatment; patients who have criteria for abuse and / or dependence on other drugs that compromise the decision-making about treatment; patients who in the moment are in treatment for smoking (Patients transferred).
Absolute risk reduction (ARR) of nonadherent patients rate to cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) using shared decision (intervention group) compared to the control group. They will be considered adherent patient at patients who participated in four sessions during four initial weeks (all sessions during the first 4 weeks) and at the end of 12 weeks more than 8 session (over 70% of sessions). With RAR, we will calculate the number needed to treat (NNT) to have one adherent patient to CBT. Absolute risk reduction (ARR) of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) dropout using shared decision (intervention group) compared to control group, will be declared as dropout if patients participate under 6 sessions (50% of CBT) in end of treatment. With RAR, we will calculate the number needed to treat (NNT) to have one patient that not dropout therapy. Absolute risk reduction (ARR) nonadherent patients to drug therapy, verified by Moriski Green Portuguese version scale, participants with score of 0 will be considered as adherents and the different values of 0 will be considered nonadherents. With RAR, we will calculate the number needed to treat (NNT)  to have one adherent patient to drug therapy
Means difference self reported number of cigarettes smoked at the end of treatment at least less than 50% of the initial consumption. Number needed to treat NNT to have a abstinent patient using shared decision-employment (intervention group) compared to the control group, patients will be considered abstinent with self-reported quit smoking during cognitive behavioral therapy. concordance rate between the type of treatment chosen in both groups front National Cancer Institute of Brazil  protocol; values equals 0 = no agreement, 0-.19 = poor agreement, from .20 to .39 = poor agreement .40 to .59 moderate agreement, 0.60 to 0.79 substantial agreement, 0, 80-1 = perfect agreement.
Effects of taping in pain and function  of patients with knee arthrosis: a blind randomised clinical trial




Effectiveness of taping in pain and functional capacity of patients with knee osteoarthritis: a blind randomised clinical trial
control group: 40 patients will undergo stretching exercises, strengthening and balance training lasting 60 minutes each therapy, 2 times per week over 8 weeks. Intervention group: 34 patients will undergo the same exercises the control group, but with the addition of patellar bracing lasting 60 minutes each therapy, 2 times per week over 8 weeks
74 Adult patients (18 from 80 years) referred AACD - Lar Escola São Francisco diagnosed with moderate knee osteoarthritis and agree to participate in the study according to the term informed consent
Patients with rheumatic diseases associated; orthopedic surgery of the lower limbs; prior injections of steroids in the past six months; obesity (BMI
Primary outcome : pain The level of pain pain is measured by Visual Analogue Scale that it is a graduated scale ranging from 0 to 10 , where the higher the number , the higher is the level of pain . This scale will be applied by by an independent observer blind , at baseline ( pre-intervention ) after four and eight weeks of treatment. It is expected that the application of banding associated with the exercise program ( intervention group ) provides pain relief of at least 5 % compared with the control group, which only perform the therapy based exercise program.
Secondary outcome : function Functional capacity will be assessed by WOMAC questionnaire containing 17 questions about the degree of difficulty in performing activities of daily living . The questionnaire will be applied by an independent observer blind , at baseline ( pre-intervention ) and after eight weeks of treatment. It is expected that the use of banding associated with the exercise program ( intervention group ) provide patients better functional outcomes ( at least 5% ) compared with control patients , which performs the same therapy exercises, but without the additional use of bandage.
Effects of a stretching program of the posterior muscles in patients with temporomandibular dysfunction
Assessment of pain and mouth opening range of motion in patients with temporomandibular disorders subjected to stretching of the posterior chain
Experimental group: 15 women with temporomandibular dysfunction will undergo stretching exercises 2 times a week for a period of six weeks, totaling 12 sessions.
Group control:
Study participants; females; in the age group 20-50 years. diagnosed with temporomandibular dysfunction; who do not use drugs and are not performing any other intervention.
They will be excluded from the study that individuals are making use of analgesic drugs and aantiinflamatório ; also some other type of physical therapy intervention.
It is expected that occurs mean decrease of 2 points in pain intensity for each muscle algometer and evaluated by average increase of 2 cm from the opening of motion of the mouth assessed by caliper.
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Effect of interferential current combined with exercise in patients with fibromyalgia: randomized clinical trial
Effect of interferential current combined with exercise on fibromyalgia: randomized clinical trial
Subjects, included in the study, will be randomly divided into two groups: Active and Placebo. 
In the Active group: Forty patients will receive 24 treatment sessions, each session consists of an exercise protocol and application of interferential current. Exercise protocol consists of 15 minutes of stretching, 10 minutes of aerobic exercise and 15 minutes of muscle strengthening. Concomitant to exercise, interferential current (IFC) will be applied on paravertebral region for 40 minutes. Four auto-adhesive electrodes will be placed diagonally on the upper angle of the scapula region and lumbar spine, just above the iliac crests. An frequency of amplitude modulated of 100 Hz will be used. The pulse amplitude or intensity of stimulation will be maintained at a strong but comfortable level reported by the subject. At 5-minute intervals, the intensity level will be increased again. 
Patients with fibromyalgia, diagnosed according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology, female, aged 18 to 60 years, without physical therapy concomitant.
Subjects will be excluded if they have concomitant rheumatologic disease, severe psychiatric disorders or any contraindication to prevent the use of interferential current, such as allergies to the electrodes, cardiac pacemaker, pregnancy, epilepsy, skin conditions or deficient skin sensation in the areas of electrode placement.
Reduction of pain of the patients submitted treatment with active interferential current and exercise. For the assessment of pain reduction, the numerical scale of 11 points, pressure pain threshold, Mcgill pain questionnaire, temporal summation test and modulation conditioned of pain test will be used. And for verification the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% in each test, questionnaire and scale used pre, middle and post intervention will be considered.
Improvement of the quality of life, sleep quality, muscle strength and cutaneous sensitive threshold. Reduction of depression, anxiety, physical disability, pain-related negative expectations, fear of movement, red areas marked in thermographic image and number of cytokines. To assess these variables, will be used: Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire, Short Form 36 Health Survey, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, dynamometer, Von Frey filaments, Beck Depression Inventory, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire, sit to stand test, six-minute walk test, Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale, infrared thermographic camera and blood collection. For verification of the expected outcomes, a variation of at least 5% in each scale and questionnaire used pre, middle and post intervention will be considered.
Acupuncture in the Complementary Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus Type II
Acupuncture in the Complementary Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus Type II
Experimental group: 21 participants of both sexes participate in six acupuncture sessions with laser, with weekly intervals. They will be instructed to maintain a fast 2 hours before the scheduled time for service.
Control group: 21 participants of both sexes participate in six acupuncture sessions with laser placebo at weekly intervals. They will be instructed to maintain a fast 2 hours before the scheduled time for service.
be aged between 30-75 years; Be in possession of Diabetes Mellitus Type II only; Be in drug treatment for at least 1 year properly prescribed (to be confirmed with the medication of revenue); Report difficulties in glycemic control, regular saving measures higher than recommended by the Brazilian Society of Diabetes (postprandial up to 180mg / dl).
have any of the lower limb amputee or part thereof (due to the location of the selected acupoints to the treatment protocol); Be insulin ; Being a smoker;Be alcoholic; Be in drug treatment for other diseases including obesity ; Be making specific diet for weight loss; Practicing regular physical activity; Be in possession of cancer; Being pregnant
The results led to the decrease in blood glucose values to levels below 180mmdl the participants in the intervention group compared to the placebo group.
The nursing diagnoses showed improvement in the participants in the intervention group compared to the placebo group.
Remifentanila influence on management control in intravenous Anesthesia.
Remifentanila influence on Hypnosis management in Total Intravenous Anesthesia
The aim of this study is to compare two target controlled induction modes and correlate the LDC, the required maintenance dose of propofol for intraoperative and the RDC, from the monitoring of the bispectral index. In P (GP) group, 25 patients will undergo laparoscopic cholecystectomy and receive propofol titrated 1 at 1 mcg / ml, ultilizando the pharmacokinetic model of Marsh effect with rapid Ke0 (1.21 min-1), and the group R (GR), 25 patients receive remifentanil 3 ng / ml in effect before it TCI GP titrated propofol induction.
They will be included in this study patients enrolled in the pre-anesthetic evaluation office of Campinas Medical Center Foundation; with surgical risk level 1 and 2 (which are lower risk); aged between 18 and 65 years.
illicit drugs and  allergies to any medication used in this study
Earlier loss of consciousness in the group that used the opioid remifentanil, from the mean obtained by the bispectral index.
Awakening time obtained from the mean between groups.
Evaluation of two alpha-tocopherol capsules effect on maternal and child vitamin E levels
Supplementation with alpha-tocopherol on the nutritional status in vitamin E
This study aims to evaluate what dose of maternal supplementation with alpha-tocopherol is more efficient in increasing and maintaining the alpha-tocopherol concentrations in the blood and mother
Lactating women; normal delivery; term delivery; aged 18 to 40 years.
Women with any clinical sign of disease; infections; syphilis; HIV; gastrointestinal diseases; liver disease; heart disease; diabetes; hypertension; cancer; mental disorder; twin pregnancie; newborn with fetal malformations; history of abortion; use of antithrombotics; use of supplements containing vitamin E during pregnancy
Expected outcome: Increased alpha-tocopherol levels in blood and mother's milk after administration of supplemental vitamin E, within 60 days postpartum. For determining the expected outcome, the efficiency of the two supplementation schemes adopted in increasing and maintaining the alpha-tocopherol levels in the blood and maternal milk in the given time period will be evaluated. Will be used statistical tools to observe variation in alpha-tocopherol levels of the control group, supplemented 1 and 2 supplemented.
Expected outcome: increase and maintain the most significant level of vitamin E in breast milk of lactating group supplemented 2. To realize the expected outcome will be used statistical tools to compare the supplementation scheme 2 (administration of 01 400 IU capsule on the 1st and 20th days postpartum) efficiency with supplementation scheme 1 (administration of 01 400 IU capsule on the 1st day postpartum).
Effect of the use of the anchoring system for patients with chronic peripheral vestibular
Effects of the use of the anchor system in the rehabilitation of balance in individuals with chronic peripheral vestibular disorder: randomized blind controlled trial
This study will involve 60 volunteers divided into three groups : G1 ( n = 20 ) intervention protocol - proprioceptive exercises with anchor system; G2 ( n = 20 ) intervention protocol - proprioceptive exercises without anchor and G3 ( n = 20 ) control without any intervention system. The protocol for clinical intervention will consist of proprioceptive exercises, applied in isolation or associated with the anchor system as randomization of volunteers , held twice a week for a period of three months.
Proprioceptive exercises , adapted Lustosa et al will be realized. and Lord et al . , which will be demonstrated and supervised by the employee responsible for the action . The exercises will be performed in sitting and standing positions as well as positions that require the action of gait development in different conditions .
Eligibility criteria fall within individuals of both sexes , aged 50 years, suffering from chronic peripheral vestibular disease with presence of dizziness and decreased body balance, and nonspecific lightheadedness or feeling dizzy, and peripheral etiology and daily occurrence , weekly, monthly for at least three months , in which the symptoms of vertigo , dizziness , postural instability of vestibular origin , are not responding positively to conventional RV , which includes the reorganization of the VOR .
Will be classified as patients who do not respond positively to RV , those who remain with otoneurology symptoms for more than six months after the start of the intervention , no clinical improvement observed .
Exclusion criteria from the survey include: patients who are using drugs (benzodiazepines and anticonvulsants) acting on the balance, calcium channel blockers (cinnarizine and flunarizine), plus motor, visual or cognitive restrictions that prevent the realization of and reviews proposed intervention, as well as with systemic diseases without drug therapy.
The balance in semi - static and dynamic posture will be assessed by the Walking Test, transfer from sitting to standing , sensitized Limit Test and stability . All study participants will undertake the semi - static and dynamic evaluations in two blocks : one without the anchor system and another with the anchor system. Latency of motion ( LM ) : The following variables will be evaluated measured in seconds arising from the visual stimulus to the beginning of the movement ; - Speed ??of movement ( VM ) : average speed of displacement of the center of body mass ( CMC ) . Displacement in degrees per second; - End point of the tour ( PFE ) : largest displacement of CMC in the first movement supported for each direction . Measured in percentage of the maximum possible displacement displacement, considered 100 % ; - Maximum excursion ( ) larger displacement obtained throughout the testing in each direction. Measured in percentage ; - Directional control of movement ( DM ) : individual ability to maintain the axis parallel to the axis of movement to be targeted . Measured in percentage . For the safety of all tests on the platform , the researcher responsible for another employee will be near the participant to avoid any incident fall, observe the movement strategies carried out by volunteers during the tests and the fatigue threshold of each will be respected voluntary movements between each battery.
Cognitive and functional aspects will be assessed through: Test Clock (TR), Test of Fluency Verbal (TFV), Trail Making B (TMB) to cognitive variables; functional clinical tests for functional performance, balance, agility and speed, such as the Timed Up and Go (TUG), of Picking Up and Sit Test (TLS), Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Dynamic Gait Index (DGI) and MiniBESTest (MBT); Dizzness Handicap Inventory for evaluation of dizziness and Vestibular Disorders Activities of Daily Living Scale (VADL) to assess the impact of dizziness and imbalance in the body performing everyday activities in patients with  vestibular deficits. The method of application, as well as the variables obtained in each instrument mentioned above is described in detail  in the project.
Effects of physical exercise and the use of nutritional supplement on overweight, hypertension and diabetes
Metabolic syndrome: prevalence and effects of exercise and nutritional supplementation in adults and the elderly of the city of Santo Antônio de Goiás
Group with supplement: 42 women received capsules containing 500 mg of Curcumin, which were administered orally, once a day, preferably 30 minutes before lunch or dinner, during 90 days.
Placebo group: 38 women received capsules containing 500 mg of starch, placebo substance, which were administered orally,once a day, preferably 30 minutes before lunch or dinner, during 90 days. This group was used as control.
Volunteers with waist circumference greater than 80 cm; female; age between 20 and 69 years; away gestational period and no allergy to colorants.
Volunteers with waist circumference less than 80 cm; male; the age of 20 and more than 69 years; pregnant women and allergic.
Reducing body fat percentage, after administration of Curcumin capsules, during the period of 90 days, and maintenance of the biochemical parameters of fasting blood glucose and lipid profile in the same period.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Short film to promote self-care in people with diabetes and at-risk foot
Construction and validation educational video to promote people with diabetes and foot self-care at risk
The Experimental Group will consist of 80 people with diabetes and at-risk foot who will participate in an intervention implemented through an educational short film about foot self-care. The EG will initially answer an instrument on knowledge and skills, and an evaluation of the foot will take place to measure the vibration sensitivity and tactile plantar, investigated respectively by a 128-Hz tuning fork at the hallux and 10-g monofilament in three regions of the foot. Later they will watch the movie only once (running time of 24 minutes). This moment will occur with five participants at most in each group, which may be accompanied by relatives or not, and this activity will be repeated until we reach the number of participants required for the sample. The film will be presented in a television set in a reserved place at the health unit. They will not receive any guidance after this presentation. The Control Group will comprise 80 people with diabetes and at-risk foot who will initially answer an instrument on knowledge and skills and an evaluation of the foot will take place to measure vibration sensitivity and tactile plantar, investigated respectively by a 128-Hz tuning fork at the hallux and 10-g monofilament in three regions of the foot. Later they will watch a power point presentation with the same content used in the educational film.
people with type 2 diabetes aged 40 years and older, of both sexes; with diagnosed type 2 diabetes for at least two years; registered; monitored regularly in these Primary Healthcare Units.

disoriented in time and space or presenting some difficulty that prevents them from communicating and answering the instrument.

To measure the skills for self-care was used an instrument containing 10 multiple-choice items with different aspects related to skills for self care about foot care. For the analysis of the skills for self-care to the instrument items, the 0.8% concordance index and the level of significance of 5% was set. Therefore, if inter-correlation analysis carried out by means of alpha Cronbach's coefficient test with a minimum acceptable value of 0.7. Thus, the coefficient ranges from 0 to 1, where 0 indicates complete lack of internal consistency and 1, the presence of 100%.
Consider the sociodemographic variables related to the disease and the physical examination of the foot. Regarding the socio-demographic variables were included: age, sex, education, marital status, occupation, who lives and income. For the variables related to the disease were considered: time of diagnosis, drug therapy, diet, check blood glucose, presence of other diseases, smoking, alcohol consumption, family history of DM, physical activity, weight, height, current blood glucose and blood pressure blood. the variables are considered related to the physical evaluation of the foot: dermatological, circulatory, neurological and orthopedic. Is calculated measures frequency statistics, mean and standard deviation. Mean comparisons before and after will be made through the Student's t test for paired data. The association analysis between the independent variables will be made through the parametric tests X2, Fisher-Freeman-Halton test and between the dependent variables using the McNemar test. They will be considered statistically significant inferential analysis with p values ??<0.05.
Effect of strength exercises of muscles neck in peoples with migraine and without migraine 

Effect of exercises protocol for strengthen cervical muscles in migraineurs compared with placebo group - randomized controlled trial
Intervention group: 21 men and women with migraine will make of strengthening exercises of the superficial and deep muscles of the neck once a week for 30 minutes during the period of 8 weeks. In addition, they will be receive stretches guidelines to do at home.
Placebo group: 21 men and women with migraines receive application of therapeutic ultrasound, turn off, in the neck once a week for 20 minutes during the period of 8 weeks.
Volunteers with migraine; both genders; aged between 18 and 55 years.
Diagnosis of other headache; analgesic abuse; history of trauma in the neck or face; pregnancy; hernia diagnosis or disc degeneration in the cervical; systemic diseases, anesthetic block in the last 3 months.
Frequency (days) and intensity of headache (0-10) determined by a headache diary. 
Change in cervical range of motion;change in pressure pain threshold; electromyographic measurement during craniocervical flexion test, muscle strength test and endurance test; inability related to the cervical spine by questionnaires. 
Effect of an intervention program for nutrition education and physical activity in the prevention of obesity in schoolchildren
Effect of an intervention program with nutrition education and physical activity in the prevention of obesity in school children: a randomized controlled trial 
Intervention group: 250 students from first to fourth grade of elementary school ( totaling six school) will receive an intervention program with nutrition education and physical activity. In schools in the intervention group, the program execution will be held twice a month , in the afternoon , lasting 50 minutes during a school year. Intervention with an active nutrition education program will be implemented by promoting healthy eating through playful practice . The physical activity intervention will be addressed through the Developmental Physical Activity through play . Control group : 250 students from first to fourth grade of elementary school ( totaling six school) , follow with the regular activities of the schools, without any intervention.
Students of both sexes, who are regularly enrolled and regulars from first to fourth year of elementary school in the afternoon of the schools in the city of Porto Alegre-RS.
Students with disabilities to perform the anthropometric measures and special needs . In addition to the students who did not agree to undergo anthropometric measures and participation in the intervention program .
It is expected a difference of means 0.45 ( kg / m² ) in body mass index between the intervention and control groups .
We expect a modification of the prevalence of obesity , waist circumference , body fat percentage , blood pressure level , dietary habits and level of physical activity between groups.  For the assessment of nutritional status will use the Body Mass Index (BMI), with cutoff points based on Z-score for age and sex, recommended by the Ministry of Health (Brazil), which adopts the criteria used by the World Health Organization circumference waist is obtained using an inelastic tape placed in the umbilicus. The percentage of body fat will be measured by bioelectrical impedance method. The measurement of blood pressure follow the recommendations of the VI Brazilian Guidelines on Hypertension Arterial.O level of physical activity and food consumption will be evaluated through a questionnaire.
Early bedside sedestation after heart surgery: clinical and psychological repercussions.
early bedside sedestation in the postoperative cardiac surgery: clinical and psychological repercussions .
Patients will be divided into a control group that will carry out conventional physical therapy and intervention group that performs conventional physiotherapy associated with early withdrawal from the bed (RPL). Will participate in the study about of 30 patients, they will be served 2 times per day, each lasting about 30 minutes of service. The intervention group be ´ keep-oriented sedestação for 1 hour. Patients will be submitted to spirometry, manovacuometria and six-minute walk test in three moments: pre operative on the day of discharge from ICU and hospital discharge. Psychological variables depression and anxiety will be evaluated using the Beck Depression inventory and anxiety Stroke-preoperative State and after discharge from the ICU.
patients older than 18 years undergoing cardiac surgery; sign the Informed Consent and Informed .
reoperation after surgery; those who come to peri -operative death; present need for invasive mechanical ventilation for longer than 24 hours; hospital stay above 10 days after surgery; are doing use of tranquilizers and antidepressants.
In this research, the RPL not interfered on cardiopulmonary function, causing only in maintaining the Mep when compared to conventional physiotherapy.
Early bedside sedestation after cardiac surgery did not result in important respiratory or hemodynamic instability during its execution, demonstrating to be a secure rehabilitation strategy after cardiac surgery.
Evaluation of masticatory function in adult patients with cerebral palsy
Clinical and electromyographic evaluation of masticatory dynamics in adult patients with cerebral palsy
33 adults with cerebral palsy. Anamnesis and clinical examination will be conducted, as well as the determination of oral motor function through quantification by means of scores. The score achieved by each patient according to her/his performance in accomplishing oral movements will classify her/his impairment of oral motor function in mild, moderate and severe.
Origin of the volunteers: Patients from ‘Associação Pró-Saúde para Pacientes com Necessidades Especiais’ - ASPE and Training Program in Dentistry for Persons with Disabilities from Dentistry School of São José dos Campos / UNESP.
Type of cerebral palsy: diparetic, quadriparesis or hemiparesis.
Origin of the volunteers: originating from  other institutions than DentistrySchoolof  São José dos Campos / UNESP .
Type of cerebral palsy: Any paralysis different than quadriparesis, hemiparesis or diparetic.
It is expected a statistical agreement  (p<0,05) between the classification obtained by the clinical examination ( mild, moderate and severe)and electromyography evaluation (mild, if higher than 50 microvolts; moderate, if higher than 20 but lower than 50 microvolts; and severe, if lower than 20 microvolts)of masticatory dynamics of the patients.
It is expected lower electromyographic values (in microvolts) for masticatory muscles of patients with cerebral palsy in relation to those found in the literature for individuals without cerebral palsy, of the same age, with no motor and cognitive impairment (50 e 100 microvolts). 
Study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy parameters of the drug PRX-102 administered by intravenous infusion every 2 weeks for 12 weeks, to adult patients with Fabry disease
A Phase 1/2, Open Label, Dose Ranging Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Exploratory Efficacy Parameters of PRX-102 Administered by Intravenous Infusion Every 2 Weeks for 12 Weeks to Adult Fabry Patients
This will be an open-label, dose ranging study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and exploratory efficacy parameters of PRX-102 in adult Fabry patients (
Symptomatic adult Fabry patients (?18 yrs; Males: plasma and/or leucocyte alpha galactosidase activity (by activity assay) less than lower limit of normal (LLN in plasma=3.2 nmol/hr/ml, LLN in leucocytes=32 nmol/hr/mg/protein); Females: historical genetic test results consistent with Fabry mutations; Globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) concentration in urine 
Participation in any trial of an investigational drug within 30  days prior to study screening; Chronic kidney disease stages 3-5 (CKD 3-5) (Appendix 7); History of dialysis or renal transplantation; 	Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) therapy initiated or dose changed in the 4 weeks prior to screening ; Severe myocardial fibrosis by MRI (?2 late-enhancement [LE] positive left ventricular segments) (Weidemann et al. 2009); History of clinical stroke; Pregnant or nursing; Presence of HIV and/or HBsAg and/or Hepatitis C infections; Known allergies to ERT; Known allergy to Gadolinium based contrast agents;	Presence of any medical, emotional, behavioral or psychological condition that, in the judgment of the Investigator and/or Medical Director, would interfere with the patient’s compliance with the requirements of the study
To evaluate the safety and tolerability: Safety will be assessed by the frequency, severity, and duration of treatment-emergent AEs (adverse events), including clinically significant laboratory abnormalities, ECG changes from baseline, physical examination findings and assessment of the injection site after administration of the study drug; Anti-PRX-102 antibodies will be assessed before dosing at: baseline, every month, at last infusion, and 1 and 3 months after last infusion. To evaluate pharmacokinetics: The following PK parameters will be derived from the plasma concentration versus time profiles to determine the profile of the study drug: Cmax, t1/2, Tmax, AUC0-t, and AUC0-?. Samples will be taken at first and last infusions at the following time points: pre-infusion (baseline); 1 hour after the beginning of the infusion; at the end of the infusion; 1, 4, 8, 24, 48±3, 72±3, 96±3 hours and 2 weeks ± 3 days post-infusion (last blood sample will be drawn just before the second infusion of the patient and just before the first infusion of the extension study). To evaluate the exploratory efficacy parameters of PRX-102 in adult Fabry patients: Exploratory efficacy parameters will be evaluated as a preliminary analysis of endpoints that may be appropriate for late stage clinical studies.  The variables are as follows: Gb3 concentrations in plasma and urine sediment at baseline and at every infusion during the study; Globotriaosylsphingosine (Lyso-Gb3) concentration in plasma at baseline and at every infusion during the study; Assessment of gastrointestinal symptoms at baseline and at last infusion (Appendix 8); Kidney functions (eGFR and proteinuria) at baseline and at last infusion;  Short Form Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) at baseline and at last infusion (Appendix 9).The following additional procedures will be performed only at baseline in this protocol as a reference point for evaluation as an exploratory efficacy endpoint parameter in an extension protocol.  These parameters are not expected to show significant response during the 12 weeks of dosing in this study and will not be repeated at the last infusion. Kidney biopsy for Gb3 concentration (Appendix 5). Skin punch biopsy for Gb3 concentration (Appendix 5).MRI of the heart and brain. Mainz Severity Score Index (MSSI) (Appendix 6). Cardiac function assessment (echocardiography and stress test) 
N/A
Pregnancy and intervention to avoid prematurity 
Quarenta Semanas: Innovative Intervention in Prenatal Care for Reduction of Prematurity
A randomized clinical trial will be conducted , recruiting pregnant woman in the first 8 weeks of pregnancy and the following interventions will be implemented : 1 approach to early inclusion of pregnant prenatal through the use of social networks (one
Pregnant indicates the other of their community ), 2 women empowerment for self-care through the application of a checklist based on evidence for prenatal care for each
They shall include all pregnant women who accept participate in the research performing prenatal clinics in four randomized clinics after signing the Consent Form . One copy of the consent form  will be provided for all participants.
Pregnant women under 18 and with twin pregnancy
To check the outcome will be analyzed gestational ages of birth of all newborns in the study of pregnant women and the rate will be calculated by the number of premature births in the case and control units divided by the total number of births .Premature birth will be defined as birth before 37 weeks of gestational age and calculated as proportion of premature births in the two types of unit: case and control
It will be verified by the difference in the proportion of normal births in the case and control groups
Caffeine supplementation can make runners run further and improve pace strategy
Effects of creatine and caffeine supplementation association in street runners performance
Fifteen healthy male Physical Education students, with large experience in running on treadmill (aged 25 ± SD 7 years, weight 75.3 ± 3.6 kg, height 176.1 ± 4.0 cm)  participated in a caffeine supplementation experiment (followed by a physical exertion test). The experiment was a cross-over trial (where participants took control of themselves), counterbalanced (where half of participants would begin with the placebo test and the other half would start with the caffeine supplement), randomized and double-blind design.

Supplementation: Caffeine and resistant starch (placebo) supplements for this study were allocated in three gelatin capsules containing 6 mg·kg-1 of caffeine or resistant starch, both with the same color, taste and smell (to make oral supplementation).  After four hours in a fasting state, participants ingested the supplementation 60 minutes (considered sufficient time to achieve a peak plasma level of caffeine) before beginning the laboratory test run.
Healthy participants which did not use any ergogenic supplements in the last 6 months preceding the test.
 Individuals without previous experience in running on the treadmill; intolerant individuals to caffeine use.
Observed outcomes  The rest time interval (RTI) between the running sets in the caffeine condition was lower than in the placebo situation. In addition, in the caffeine supplementation situation individuals ran longer (i.e. they increased the time to exhaustion, even with a lower RTI than in the placebo-supplemented condition).
Observed outcomes  Both at rest and in exercise, there were no significant differences in the ratio of perceiver exertion, heart rate or blood lactate concentrations between the caffeine and placebo supplementation situations.
Investigation of the effect of phytosterol consumption (plant extract) on the levels of cholesterol and blood fractions in children and adolescents with abnormal lipid levels in the blood treated at a university hospital.
Investigation of the therapeutic effect of phytosterol on LDL-cholesterol concentrations in dyslipidemic children and adolescents in a university hospital, randomized crossover study
Initially, all recruited participants (n = 80) will go through a phase of adaptation to a restricted diet high in saturated fat (
dyslipidemic children and adolescents; both genders; aged 6 to 19 years, patients arising from the Outpatient Nutrition in Pediatrics and the Center for Studies of the University Hospital Adolescent Health Pedro Ernesto; plasma lipid values equal to or greater than 170 mg / dL for total cholesterol after they followed the diet less than seven percent saturated fat and total energy intake less than 200 mg cholesterol per day for a minimum period of four months.























volunteers with preexisting cardiovascular disease; metabolic diseases associated with dyslipidemia; any endocrine disorders. Children and adolescents who present triglyceride levels above 300 mg; use of food or any medications that may cause changes in the lipid profile; pregnant adolescents.
The effectiveness of the phytosterol  will be confirmed, if there is reduced at least 5% of serum LDL cholesterol compared to baseline after 8 weeks of the use of phytosterol. In the control group is expected to be no significant reduction. To measure this effect, the biochemical measurement of LDL-cholesterol concentrations at randomization and at the end of the study will be performed.                        
Significant adverse effects related to the consumption of the phytosterol are not expected findings in the study. The information will be obtained through records noted in the study protocol during consultations.  The expected results no significant changes in eating behavior and adherence to dietary supplement (milk enriched with phytosterols). The evaluation of the diet will be measured through dietary recall survey of 24 hours and adherence to phytosterol for the collection of empty pots at each visit. The total energy, macronutrients, saturated fat percentage and milligrams of cholesterol should not differ statistically between the beginning and end of treatment (p> 0.05) and the pots should return empty at each visit.
Clinical evaluation and treatment of voice tremor with botulinum toxin and propranolol.
Clinical evaluation and treatment of voice tremor with botulinum toxin and propranolol.
Intervention Group 1: Patients with vocal tremor subjected to the use of Propranolol tablets orally in increasing doses and increments of 20-80 mg per day administered twice daily with a duration of 1 month. The increase in dose is 20 mg weekly.

Intervention Group 2: Botulinum toxin into the vocal fold: treatment with botulinum toxin type A in thyroarytenoid muscle in a single dose of 2-4 units, whose effect lasts about 3-6 months. The injection is performed with a needle on neck and guided percutaneous laryngeal electromyography.
presence of vocal tremor to perceptual analysis and larynx; older than 18 years, both sexes
presence of laryngeal spasm during laryngoscopy or auditory perceptual, presence of lesions on laryngoscopy, patients with previous treatment, contraindication to propranolol or botulinum toxin
Perceptual-hearing evaluation of voice will be conducted through the scale RASAT whose main parameter is the measurement of vocal instability in a score of 0-3.   The parameters of acoustic analysis will be evaluated:  Fundamental frequency; Standard deviation of Fundamental Frequency; Variability of Fundamental Frequency; Jitter and shimmer; Diagram phonatory deviation; 
Assessment will be conducted through patient satisfaction visual analog scale 0-100 mm, with the parameters:  Overall satisfaction Improved voice Decreased tremor Swallowing problems. Which week? Breathiness. Which week? Cough. Which week?
Pulpectomy in primary teeth: randomized controlled clinical trial evaluation
Pulpectomy in primary teeth: randomized controlled clinical trial evaluation
Children with teeth presenting periapical or furcation injury will be selected to receive endodontic treatment. Procedures will be carried out according to a standard clinical protocol previously established and will be used different root filling materials: Group 1- Guedes-Pinto paste (Rifocort, camphorated paramonochlorophenol (PMCC) and iodoform); Group 2-Modified Guedes-Pinto paste (Nebacetin, PMCC and iodoform);Group 3- Calcium hydroxide paste (Calcium hydroxide P.A., propylene glycol and zinc oxide). Clinical and radiographic data will be analyzed at 30, 60, 90 days, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years after treatment. 
Eligible patients will be select if they present:primary teeth with at least two years of permanence in mouth; teeth with radiographic changes suggesting  apical periodontitis either in root and/or furcation area; cavity that allows restoration with suitable sealing;  and teeth without any previous treatment pulp. Patients should have good systemic health, and the data on health history will be recorded.
Will be excluded from the study: teeth with less than two tears of permanence in the mouth; teeth showing root resorption equivalent to 2/3 or more; presenting radiographic disruption of pericoronal bag of the permanent teeth; primary teeth endodontically treated  in a previous session that not present remission of symptoms;teeth with non-appropriate restorative conditions. Patients with any changes to general, are not included in the survey.
Clinical success of the pulpectomies performed in Pediatric Dentistry Clinic of UFSM. Clinical success will be considered when the tooth does not present pain, mobility, fistula or swelling. 
Radiographic success of the pulpectomies performed in Pediatric Dentistry Clinic of UFSM. Radiographic success will be considered when reduction in radiolucent aspects corresponding to periapical lesions or furcation previously identified.
Silicium Pastilles Application on Feet in Cases of Lombar Pain
Stiper Application on Feet Reflexology Points in Cases of Lombar Pain
8 were applied silicon pads, every foot 4 in reflexive points on once a week for six weeks on 43 subjects aged between 18 and 65. There was no control group, and only the application group. All subjects who scored 10 or more points on the Oswestry Disability Questionnaire for lumbar pain participated in the study.
Be aged between 18-65 years and have constant back pain for at least 2 days.
To present pathologies like cancer and malignant lesions on the feet, such as fissures, fistulae, dermatitis, among other which may had caused damage on skin. It was also presented as an exclusion criterion to achieve a number below 10 in Oswestry Disability Questionnaire.
There was the reduction of back pain and the  disability caused by the pain through both questionnaires.
There was an emprovement in the sleep of the participants.
Evaluation of malaria relapse rate in Brazil
Evaluation of malaria relapse rate in Brazil
There is not a study intervention.
This study will use secondary data from the epidemiological surveillance system (SIVEP Malária).This study does not require any clinical procedures, as it will use secondary data. The patients will be exposed only to the routine procedures, as recommended by the national guidelines. These procedures include digital puncture to diagnosis and cure evaluation. 
Positive diagnosis result (RDT, slide, PCR) and an evaluation of cure within 40/60 days in the selected areas.

Exclusion criteria of the patient data in the analysis:
Absence of an evaluati
Proportion of patients with a second clinical malaria episode within 60 days after the treatment evaluate by thick blood smear. 
Time to relapse Falciparum / vivax recrudescence ratio Incidence in the population stratified by area and age range. Proportion of Early treatment failure  Proportion of Late treatment failure  
Bed bath with tub / basin and bath bag: micro-biological case-control and cost evaluation
Conventional Bath bed and Bath Bag: case-control microbiological, cost evaluation
50 patients will be submitted to the bath using bucket, basin, soap and water. 50 patients will be submitted to the bath with shower bag (Bag Bath). The determination of the group will be made randomly. For each research participant patient will be performed five baths on consecutive days. Before starting the first and after the fifth bath will be collected swab the skin, right popliteal region, the material will be sent to the laboratory of clinical analyzes of HCFMB.
dependence on the nursing team; impaired physical mobility; bedridden in the ward admission; up to 48 hours of hospitalization.
 
partial dependence on the nursing team; They are not bedridden; show on mechanical ventilation; infectious disease of skin and soft tissue (cellulitis; erysipelas; eczema); skin ulcers; pressure; venous; infectious or tumor; previous use of antibiotics.













Microbiological analysis implies the presence or absence of colonization in both the bed bathing procedures: Bag Batth (Group B) and bathing in conventional bed (Group A). The microorganisms are seeded in appropriate culture media (Agar and blood agar Mconkey) for microbiological analysis. The semi-quantitative results will be seen with growth ranging between 1 and 4 crosses. The microorganisms will be identified through biochemical tests in automated machine Vitek 2 (Biomericux).
Secondary outcomes are not expected        
Behavioral intervention about adherence to oral antidiabetic to treatment of diabetes mellitus
Effect of strategies 
Experimental group: Application of strategies 
Patients of both genders with diabetes mellitus,type 2; adults over 18 years; continuous use for at least six months of oral antidiabetic agents; show an average score intention greater than or equal to 4.
Drug administration by a caregiver; use insulin to treat diabetes mellitus; make diabetes monitoring in other health service.


Increasing the overall proportion of adherence to oral antidiabetic agents in more than 80%,determined through the action planning strategies and coping planning strategies from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the study beginning and end of the study.  
Decrease in glycated hemoglobin value in the period of 105 days, determined through the action planning strategies and coping planning strategies from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the study beginning and end of the study.  Decrease emotional distress related to diabetes in the period of 105 days,  determined through the action planning strategies and coping planning strategies from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the study beginning and end of the study.
Monitoring of Patients with Heart Failure Telephone for Knowledge Improvement and Self Care
 Impact Telephone Monitoring in the Evaluation of Knowledge and Selfcare of Patients with Heart Failure


Total number of participants: 36

- Control Group: 19 participants
Patients with heart failure; who were hospitalized and / or searching the emergence in the last three months due to decompensation by the disease; in clinical follow-up in heart failure clinic of the University Hospital Pedro Ernesto; both sexes; older age or equal to 18 years; not present any functional problem, which prevents him from speaking, writing or interfere with cognition; have telephone contact and availability monitoring.
Heart failure patients in very advanced stage with no prospect of life (greater than or equal to 6 months); and / or with other comorbidities in terminal stage that might interfere with evaluation; Stage IV according to the functional classification of the New York Heart Association.
Outcomes actually observed Knowledge about heart failure assessed by questionnaire Knowledge about heart failure from the realization of at least 60% of the total score hits. Self-care in heart failure assessed by questionnaire European Heart Failure Self-care Behaviour Scale from the realization of at least 20 points of the total score.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Imipramine compared to conservative treatment of urinary incontinence in women urgency.
Imipramine versus conservative treatment in women with Overactive Bladder Syndrome.
Application in both groups of Quality of Life Questionnaire and the Questionnaire for Urinary Incontinence.
Realization of perineal exercises and bladder retraining for patients selected for randomization to the first three months, with only conservative treatment.
Women older than 18 years, complaining of urge incontinence or mixed (with a major component of emergency)
Pelvic surgery for correction of urinary incontinence less than two years, presence of vaginal or urinary infection, can not understand or sign the informed consent; not understand or are unable to perform the proposed treatment, pregnancy or the postpartum period including the period of six months after delivery; intolerance to the use of imipramine; Urinary Incontinence Mixed Incontinence pure or predominant component of the effort, heart disease, severe liver disease, severe kidney disease with loss of renal function, hyperthyroidism, acute angle glaucoma, epilepsy disease; Parkinson
Improvement in urinary incontinence obtained by comparing the scores of questionnaires in General Health Perception, Incontinence Impact and Final score in the Quality of Life Questionnaire score and the final Questinário Incontinence Severity Index. Urodynamic parameters by comparing the amount of urine loss and the presence of non-inhibited contractions.
Verify the occurrence and frequency of adverse effects from the use of imipramine.
Observational study to assess data from the past related to the rate of hospitalization in
Patients with Schizophrenia treated one year before with oral drugs for Schizophrenia and
A retrospective, observational study to assess the rate of hospitalization in
patients with Schizophrenia treated one year before with oral Antipsychotics and
This is a non-interventional study, i.e., will not be performed any interventional treatments or procedures. Will be only collected information from source data or a retrospective database.
Adult male and female schizophrenic subjects of age 18 to 55 years will be included in the study from different countries in Latinoamerica who were shifted to LAIs because of any of the following reasons: patient did not respond to oral antipsychotic treatment, patient’s choice, lack of adherence to oral treatment will be included in the study and will constitute the Study Population. The study will aim to enroll approximately 312 patients into the study.
Out-Patients with the main diagnosis of schizophrenia; only clinical records with complete information during the 2 years period
selected for data analysis will be included; patients treated with oral antipsychotics then switched to long acting injectable atypical due to poor adherence, lack of efficacy (no significant symptom reduction, judged by physician, at maximum recommended dose of an antipsychotic for 6 weeks), patients’ choice, when the switch has not been clearly justified or the switch has not been done during hospitalization; being regularly treated with long acting injectable atypical antipsychotics for at least 1 year after the initial use of long acting injectable atypical antipsychotics.
Patients that started long acting injectable atypical antipsychotics treatment as in-patients and patients that switched to long acting injectable atypical antipsychotics during hospitalization; patients with schizophrenia resistant to treatment.
The Primary outcome is the hospitalization rates associated with psychotic relapse and will be verified through the medical records revision. The primary outcome will be compared in the patients before the  long acting injectable atypical antipsychotics (LAI) use - pre-LAI period- and in the 12 months of LAI atypical antipsychotics use - LAI period. McNemar’s test will be performed for the analysis of the rate of hospitalization associated with psychotic relapse in pre and post LAI periods in this 1-year mirror-image study.
The Secondary outcomes are the number of hospitalizations associated with psychotic relapse; days of hospitalization associated with psychotic relapse. The comparison of the secondary outcomes between the pre-LAI and the LAI period will be done for the patients. The following tests will be performed for comparing the pre and post LAI period among patients in this 1-year mirror-image study: Wilcoxon signed rank test will be performed to compare differences in the numbers of hospitalizations due to psychotic relapses; paired T-test will be performed to compare differences in the days of hospitalizations related with psychotic relapses. The level of statistical significance will be set at p<0.05, with confidence intervals of 95%.
Exercises for functionality and balance in elderly
Multisensory and closed kinetic chain exercises on the functional capacity and balance in elderly women: blinded randomized clinical trial 
The exercises program was implemented in the group in the intervention group (17 subjects), for a period of ten weeks, frequency of once a week, lasting an hour a day. The program was composed of 4 phases: heating, multisensory exercises, closed kinetic chain and slowdown.
In the heating step were carried out hiking with acceleration and deceleration, forward, back and side. This phase lasted 10 minutes.
women over the age of 60; understand verbal commands ; without orthopedic surgery of the lower limbs and / or history of fracture ; without walking disability ; without the presence of neurological diseases ; without acute inflammation of the musculoskeletal system ; no cancer

Elderly previously undergone orthopedic surgery of the lower limbs ; with walking disability ; in the presence of neurological diseases ; acute inflammation of the musculoskeletal system ; with cancer.
The outcomes were balance and functional performance. The balance was evaluated by the Berg Balance Scale (BBS), which consists of fourteen daily tasks scored from 0 to 4, for a total of 56 points, in which an index equal to or below 36 is associated with 100% risk of falls. The scale has a good inter-rater reliability (0.96) and test-retest reliability (TRR = 0.98), in addition to a moderate to high correlation with other instruments of functional evaluation of the balance (Steffen, Hacker, & Mollinger, 2002).  
Number of falls in the last twelve months, verified by the following question : In the last year how many drops have?
Use of galectin-3 as a blood marker for patients with Chagas disease.
Validation of the use of galectin-3 as a biomarker for determining prognosis of patients with Chagas disease.
The 60 patients included on this study will be evalluated on a specialized clinic for Chagas disease and will undergo laboratory tests, chest X-ray , ECG , stress test, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, Holter, filling of quality of life questionnaires and dosage of galectin-3 by ELISA in order to evaluate the correlation of its concentration and predefined variables. The tests will be done just once.
Chagas disease confirmed by 2 different serological tests; optimized drug therapy; NYHA functional class II-III-IV or patients with the indeterminate form; patients of any gender and aged 18 to 70 years.
Valvulopathy with hemodynamic consequences; chronic use of immunosuppressive agents; renal failure on current treatment by dialysis; acute infections or systemic infections in accordance with the definition of sepsis ACCP/SCCM (American College of Chest Phisicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine); abuse alcohol or illicit drugs (Based on DSM IV), any comorbidity with impact on survival in two years; liver, pulmonary, hematologic, neoplastic, bone, inflammatory or infectious diseases.
Expected outcome: Higher serum levels of galectin-3 in the most severe forms of presentation of Chagas disease; detected by ELISA; observing an increase of about 5 ng/mL in patients with the most severe forms when compared with patients with the indeterminate form.
Expected outcome: Higher serum levels of galectin-3 in the patients with myocardium fibrosis; detected by ELISA; observing an increase of about 5 ng/mL in patients with myocardium fibrosis when compared with patients without fibrosis.
Oral treprostinil open label study  in subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension
An open-label extension study of UT-15C in subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension - a long-term follow-up to
protocol TDE-PH-310
Open-label study to be conducted in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) who have completed the original study TDE-PH-310. There will be a single group in which 858 patients will receive oral treprostinil diethanolamine plus the medication approved for PAH treatment. Of this total, it is estimated that 51 patients will be in Brazil and 807 from other countries. The treprostinil diethanolamine dose will be calculated by the study doctor based on the patient’s response to the medication use. Study visits will occur in Baseline, Weeks 6, 12 and subsequently, every 12 weeks. Study procedures include physical tests (including six-minute walk test/Borg dyspnea scale), blood tests (including NT-proBNP), urine test (applicable to female patients of childbearing potential), phone contacts (at least weekly during the first 12 weeks and, subsequently, at least monthly) and WHO functional class.
Patients who participated in the study TDE-PH-310 and met the definition of clinical worsening (as specified in the protocol TDE-PH-310), continued treatment with study drug, was compliant with assessments and study procedures during TDE-PH-310 or were enrolled in that study when it was discontinued by the sponsor. Women of childbearing potential must be on real abstinent or use two highly effective contraceptive methods throughout the study and for at least 30 days after discontinuation of study medication. Men participating in the study should use condoms throughout the study and for at least 48 hours after the last dose of study medication.
Pregnant or breastfeeding female patient. Patient receiving therapy with prostacyclin by infusion or inhalation. Patient who was early withdrawn from the study TDE-PH-310 due to reasons other than the event of clinical worsening. Patient developed a concomitant disease or condition during participation in the original study TDE-PH-310, which in the opinion of the study physician, would represent a risk to the general health if the patient were enrolled in this extension study.
Safety assessment of study medication through the number and frequency of adverse events and changes in laboratory parameters from baseline.
Long-term improvement in the exercise capacity as measured by the 6 minute walk test
Effect of prior application of 10% potassium nitrate in reducing tooth sensitivity resulting from in-office dental bleaching: a randomized clinical trial, triple blind, placebo-controlled, split-mouth
Preoperative application effect of 10% potassium nitrate reduction in tooth sensitivity resulting from in-office dental bleaching: a randomized clinical trial, triple blind, placebo-controlled, split-mouth
It will be a study the split-mouth type.
Experimental group: Eighty will be applied to the buccal surface of the teeth of a hemi arch (upper and lower) desensitizing containing 10% potassium nitrate and 2% sodium fluoride  topically. The desensitizing will be applied in an active manner that is, rubbing the tooth surface for 20 seconds on each tooth with the aid of a disposable brush and will passively, without rubbing, to complete 10 minutes. After this period the drug will be removed with a gauze, washed and will start the in-office dental bleaching, consisting of 3 applications of 15 minutes 35% hydrogen peroxide.
Patients older than 18 years are included; with good oral and general health; with the maxillary anterior teeth free restorations and presenting no carious lesion; which possess the color of teeth A2 or darker depending on the color scale Vita Classical (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany) and to agree with the free and informed consent form.
Patients will be excluded who have already performed dental whitening; pregnant patients or lactating; who report tooth sensitivity; severe browning (staining by tetracycline, fluorosis or endodontics); with deleterious habits; people with dental prostheses and orthodontic appliances and any other oral pathology . Although patients will be excluded that present systemic changes such as stomach, heart, kidney and liver problems, diabetes, hypertension or are making continual use of drugs with analgesic and anti-inflammatory.
Expected outcome: Number of patients that report spontaneous pain in any moment of the bleaching protocol and up to 48 h post-bleaching, through self-report. This number will be presented as percentage of patients with tooth sensitivity and will be named absolute risk of tooth sensitivity.
Expected outcome: The difference in color between the baseline condition and 1 month post-bleaching will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations.
Evaluation of application, safety and motor and cognitive effects of video game Nitendo Wii Fit Plus® in frail elderly 
Evaluation of applicability, safety and outcomes motor and cognitive of video game Nitendo Wii Fit Plus® in frail elderly 
The study will consist of two phases: 
First stage will be a pilot study to analyze the feasibility and safety of the game Nintendo Wii Fit Plus in frail elderly. The pilot study will consist of five seniors who participate in 6 training sessions with the video game, lasting 50 minutes each and frequency of twice a week. The elderly will be evaluated by blind physiotherapists in two stages: before and after training. After analyzing the results of the pilot study, we will perform a sampling calculation to calculate the number of participants of the second phase of the study. 
Frail elderly and pre frail will be selected with 60 or older, diagnosed with frailty syndrome according to the criteria of Fried. The elderly should not present neurological or orthopedic diseases that promote the inability to remain in bipedalism and wade; with normal or corrected visual acuity measured by Snellen chart; Good hearing is clinically assessed by the whisper of the test; who did not have previous experience with the Nintendo Wii Fit® and who accept sign the Informed Consent and Informed of the study.
The elderly will be excluded that during the study period, submit any clinical change that makes it impossible to perform physical exercises in standing position, as cardiorespiratory, orthopedic or neurological disorders; elderly unable to interact with the game; and in the second phase of the study will exclude elderly who are missing for more than three consecutive sessions without replacement.
In the first phase of the study will be the primary outcomes applicability and safety of the training with Nintendo Wii Fit after six intervention sessions. The applicability will be quantified upon accession of the elderly to training. The safety will be evaluated through records of the possible adverse effects such as vertigo, dizziness, malaise, imbalances and others. To asses these negative effects we will realize the evaluation pre and post intervention the following parameters: blood pressure, oxygen saturation, heart rate and we will apply the BORG scale to analyses the subjective perception of the effort. After analyses of the first results and if the technique will applicable we will start the second phase of the study. In the second phase we will be evaluated the postural control with the Mini BesTest scale and the cognition with the MoCA scale.  
The second outcomes will be: postural control evaluates by posturography (stability limit area (E), elliptical area and speed of oscillation) evaluated from the platform Neurocom Balance Manager®; quality of life by SF-36 scale; gaming performance through score records; gait by the scales Dynamic Gait Index and Functional Gait Assessment; functional capacity by Olders Americans Research and Services Multidimensional Functional Assessment Questionare (BOMFAQ); falls by International Falls Efficacy Scale; depression by GDS-15; records with falls during the study period; criteria fragility by Fried et. al.
Effects of Auriculotheray in women during labor
Effects of Auriculotheray in women during labor: a randomized clinical trial
Experimental group: 33 women will receive auriculotherapy during labor with crystal microspheres, individually pressed for 1 minute or until cause pain tolerable for inducing stimulus.

Placebo group: 33 women will receive auriculotherapy during labor with glass microspheres, without exerting pressure.
99 women in labor; 37 weeks gestation or more; single and cephalic fetus; cervical dilation greater than or equal to 4 cm; two or more contractions in 10 minutes; skin integrates the ear.
Pregnant women with severe hypertensive disease; pregnancy bleeding; previous cesarean section; dilated cervix equal to or greater at 7 cm; analgesic drug use for less than 6 hours of admission in the study.
Pain control according evolution of labor by visual analog scale (VAS) graded from 0 to 10, 0 for complete absence of pain and 10 being the worst pain experienced, assessed before, 30, 60 and 120 minutes of treatment.
Time of labor; delivery mode; Apgar in the first and fifth minute of the newborn; use of analgesics and analgesia; anxiety related the pain and evolution of labor through a validated scale (Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale - HAM-A) before and 120 minutes of treatment. 
The use of isostreching and exercises with video games in the treatment of Fibromyalgia
The use of isostreching and aerobic exercises with virtual rehabilitation in the treatment of Fibromyalgia
Isostretching group (IG): 20 women fibromyalgia  treated with the technique Isostretching three times per week for one hour, and for 8 weeks in groups. Group aerobic exercise with virtual rehabilitation (WG): 20 fibromyalgia women whose treatment performed with exercise game Wii fit plus the Nintendo Wii video game in three weekly sessions, lasting an hour, for 8 weeks group.
The researcher who conducted the assessments and reassessments did not know which group the volunteer participated and did not participate in interventions. A simple randomization was the responsibility of another researcher who was not part of the assessments and interventions.
Females; aged 18 years; Fibromyalgia diagnosis according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR); history of widespread pain persisting for more than three months, affecting both sides of the body; presence of at least 11 of 18 tender points.
Pregnancy; presence of cardiovascular, orthopedic, systemic dermatological and neurological disorders; cognitive level inadequate to meet the guidelines offered
Reducing the total number of tender points in both groups by analysis of computed algometry the initial assessment (A0) after 10th session (A1) and the 20th session (A2) in which IG obtained in A0 (16.70±1.64), A1(13.80±3.29) and A2(10.50±1.22) and another group got WG A0 (16.72±2.00), A1(12.00±3.06) and A2(10.87± 4.12);reducing the impact of fibromyalgia in both groups by analysis of the total scores of the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) in which IG A0(71.92± 9.05), A1(63.23±13.55) and A2(52.37±14.00) and WG A0(64.53±15.90), A1(41.41±13.66) and A2(34.17± 7.50).
Significant improvement in static balance only for IG resulting in lower maximum initial pressure of the feet of A0 (97,64±43,55), A1(92,65±32.87) and A2(87,55±28,89). WG kept his balance in similar reviews A0(41,80±4,53), A1(44,69±7,50) and A2(42,89±7,00).
Acupuncture in Multiple Sclerosis
Impact of electroacupuncture on quality of life for patients with Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis under treatment with immunomodulators
the study had two groups:
1.eletroacupuncture true (n=16)
Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of RRMS according to the revised 2005 McDonald criteria and under treatment with immunomodulatory drugs (interferon-beta and glatiramer acetate) were selected.
Those individuals who had previously received acupuncture treatment were excluded.
Clinical status, especially mobility, was assessed prior to the treatment, as well as after six months, using the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). Quality of life was also assessed prior to the initiation of treatment, as well as after three and six months; It was measured by the Functional Assessment of Multiple Sclerosis (FAMS) instrument, validated for Portuguese as (DEFU). Briefly, this is self-report questionnaire investigating patient perception of the quality of their lives, The six sub-scales assess mobility, symptoms, emotional well being/depression, general contentment, thinking/fatigue, and family/social well being,  using a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from “not at all” to “very much”, which yields a score between 0 (for not at all) and 4 (for very much) for each of the items. Pain was evaluated using the 10-point Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), 0= Worst possible pain and 10= No pain, applied just before the FAMS. 
Occasionally, patients reported improvement in spasticity, sleep and bowel function.
Effect of calcium intake on body weight and body fat in overweight individuals 
Effect of calcium on weight and body composition in overweight individuals
- Dairy group: 11 overweight/obese, female, low-calcium consumers (
Healthy overweight or obese women; calcium intake less than 800 mg/day; physical activity level of mild to moderate; aged between 19 and 40 years; non smokers; restriction and disinhibition level less than 14.
Use of calcium or vitamin D supplements or any medication that affects the metabolism of calcium; medications or herbs for weight reduction; adoption of diets for weight reduction; use of drugs for estrogen replacement; weight gain or loss more tran 3kg in the last three months; recent changes in physical activity level; aversion or intolerance to foods used in the study; consumption of alcohol higher than 2 servings a day; presence of eating disorders, endocrine pathology, renal disfunction, hepatic disease or malabsorption syndrome; caffeine intake more than 350mg/day; pregnance; lactance.
Average body fat loss of 4.97 % evaluated by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, after 45 days of intervention.
Unexpected significant reduction of approximately 0.6mg/dL in uric acid blood levels by enzumatic colorimetric test in dairy and supplement groups compared to the control group.  Other expected secondary outcomes had no significant differences between groups.
Effect of high-voltage electrical stimulation after carpal tunnel syndrome surgery
Effects of high voltage eletrical stimulation on pain and disfunction in workers with carpal tunnel syndrome 
The patients will be divided into two groups: High voltagem electrical stimulation (HVES)(HVES + kinesiotherapy, n=9) and placebo - PL (device off HVES + kinesiotherapy, n=5). The parameters for the application of HVES are: frequency 10 hz, pulse width determined by the device with two twin pulses of 20 ms each, with an interval of 100 µs between them, voltage of 100 Volts, reaching the threshold submotor, negative polarity (HVES cathode) on both channels for 30 minutes, 3 times a week to complete 20 sessions. The kinesiotherapy includes active mobilization of the shoulder, elbow, wrist and fingers, muscle stretching, exercise, handling and resistance, and desensitization/sensitization of the involved areas.
Female patients, aged between 20 and 60 years, after surgery for carpal tunnel decompression
Be doing physical therapy at another location; 
miss two or more intervention sessions, without replacement of the lost session.
Reduction of pain after surgery for decompression of the median nerve in the carpal tunnel in humans by visual analogue scale. It is expected that the visual analogue scale present lower values in each session.
Reduction in the values of the Boston questionnaire and visual analog scale and the absence of nervous injury on physical examination.
Phytoestrogens for controlling climacteric symptoms
The use of Phytoestrogens, low dose hormone therapy and placebo to treat psychological, somatic and urogenital  symptoms in climacteric women: randomized, controlled, double-blind, clinical trial
The three treatment groups consisted of 20 participants in each group and followed during 16 weeks. The participants were randomized according to the following therapies: 
Phytoestrogen group (n=20): one placebo tablet plus 2 portions/day of dietary soy supplementation powder containing 45 mg of isoflavone per portion, making a total of 90 mg of isoflavone/day (Previna, Sanavita Functional Foods, Piracicaba, São Paulo, Brazil).
Inclusion criteria consisted of postmenopausal women between 40 and 60 years of age who had had their last menstrual period more than 12 months previously, had follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels higher than 30mIU/mL and estradiol levels  lower than 20 pg/ml, who were having more than 8 hot flashes in 24 hours, had not been using any form of hormonal treatment during the previous six months and were not currently using any lipid-lowering drugs, antidiabetic drugs, soybean derived products or herbal supplements. 
The exclusion criteria consisted of: previous hysterectomy, chronic gastrointestinal disorder, any contraindication to hormone therapy or patients participating in another clinical trial. Finally, women were excluded if they had a known allergy or hypersensitivity to soy or cow milk or were not willing to cease consumption of soy products for the 16 weeks of the study. 
At the screening visit, women completed a standardized questionnaire designed to obtain information on their demographic characteristics including age, ethnicity, education level and social status. Women were also queried about their reproductive history, age at menopause, time since menopause, use of medication, history of cigarette smoking and frequency of alcohol consumption.  In all three groups, data were collected at baseline and after sixteen weeks of use of the respective medication. To examine the effects of the regime on endogenous hormone levels, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and 17beta estradiol were measured.   The Menopause Rating Scale (MRS) was used to evaluate menopausal symptoms at baseline and after 16 weeks of treatment. The MRS is composed of 11 items assessing menopausal symptoms and is divided into three subscales [13]: §   Somatic symptoms: hot flashes, heart discomfort, sleeping problems and muscle and joint problems (items 1-3 and 11, respectively). §   Psychological symptoms: depressive mood, irritability, anxiety, physical and mental exhaustion (items 4-7, respectively). §   Urogenital symptoms: sexual problems, bladder problems and vaginal dryness (items 8-10, respectively). Each item is graded by the subject, scores ranging from zero (absent) to four (1=mild; 2=moderate; 3=severe; 4=very severe). The total score for each subscale is the sum of each item graded within that subscale.  Total MRS score is composed of the sum of the scores obtained for each subscale.     Transvaginal sonography was performed to evaluate endometrial thickness.It will be considered the comparision of the endometrial thickness of baseline and after 16 weeks of treatment.   The vaginal trofism will be evaluated by vaginal smears.  The maturation index was scored under a light microscope by a single cytopathologist blinded to the study group at the baseline and after treatment. The Maturation Value (MV) was calculated by the following way: Superficial cells were assigned a point value of 1.0, intermediate cells were assigned a point value of 0.5, and parabasal cells were assigned a point value of 0. The number of cells in each category was multiplied by the point value, and the three results were added to calculate the MV. 
Quality of life was measured by the abbreviated version of the World Health Organization’s Quality of Life instrument (WHOQOL-BREF), 1998,  at baseline (T1) and at 16 weeks of treatment (T2). 
Effects of Counseling in sedentary adults with ankylosing spondylitis
Evaluation of effects hacer sin Sedentary behavior counseling Adults with ankylosing spondylitis : a randomized study
They will be recruited 81 patients randomized into 3 groups by envelope, in which each will be made ??up of 27 patients.
Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1: 1: 1, by one of the following groups:
Having diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis, according to the criteria New York.
Age between 18 and 59 years.
Be diagnosed with some form of physical or mental disability.
Patients on medications that alter bone metabolism , such as denosumab , teriparatide , strontium ranelate.
Average decrease in minutes per day during the week of sedentary behavior, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) after the period of ten weeks of intervention and three months of the end of treatment.
Anthropometric indicators measured by the weight in kilograms, height and body circumferences in centimeters, using equations of Jackson and Pollock (7 skinfolds), body mass index (BMI) and waist and hip ratio (WHR) , measured in the tenth week of treatment and three months after the end of treatment;
Efficacy of an ice popsicle on thirst management in the immediate postoperative period: a randomized clinical trial  
Ice as strategy to the management of thirst in the immediate postoperative period: randomized clinical trial
The control group (104 patients in the immediate postoperative period of elective or urgent/emergency surgery) received 10 mL mineral water at room temperature in a syring.
The experimental group (104 patients in the immediate postoperative period of elective or urgent/emergency surgery) received an ice popsicle made of 10 mL mineral water;
Aged between 18 and 65 years; undergoing more than eight-hour fasting; expressing thirst spontaneously or stimulated with intensity greater than or equal to three;receiving opioids or anticholinergics in the transoperative period; duration of anesthesia exceeding one hour; having been approved in the assessment of the Safety Protocol for Thirst Management
Patients who had intake or swallowing restrictions.
The ice popsicle was 37.8% (p <0.01) more effective than water regarding the intensity variation between the initial and final thirst. Considering the average variability of thirst intensity the experimental group showed greater variability (5.44 ) compared to the control group ( 3.95) and it was observed that the ice popsicle was more effective than the water temperature environment in 37.8 % and the difference between groups was statistically significant (P value < 0.01 - Student t test) , confirming the hypothesis of the study. variability the average intensity of thirst water group was considered as a basis for this calculation (100 %) , and the difference in variability between the two groups (1.49 ) given the percentage of effectiveness of the experimental group over the control group.
To evaluate the effectiveness of two strategies to provide thirst satiety, calculated the risk of each group did not achieve it and the ratio of risk to obtain the relative risk ( RR ) which resulted in 41% (0.28 - 0.60, 95% CI) . The Relative Risk Reduction ( RRR ) was 59 % ( from 0.40 to 0.72 , 95% CI) , the Absolute Risk Reduction (ARR ) was 31% (from 0.18 to 0.45 , 95% CI) and number Needed to Treat ( NNT ) of 3.2 ( 2.2 to 5.5 , 95% CI).
Influence between weight loss and improvement of symptoms in patients with reflux disease to the esophagus (occurs when the stomach contents back to the esophagus)

Influence between weight loss and improvement of symtoms in patientes with gastroesophageal reflux disease 
62 patients will be recruited. Patients will be randomized in blocks of 10 and divided into two groups.
Intervention group (31 patients): Will receive nutritional intervention with low-calorie diet, the recommended amount of calories each individual will determine by estimating its energy needs by calculating the Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) and multiplying the value obtained by the recommended activity factors by the National Academy of Sciences. Will be subtracted from the value found calories as VEMTA method for weight loss. The menu diet was delivered with a replacement list.
Both sexes; age over 18 years; BMI greater than 25m ² / kg; that are experiencing typical symptoms (heartburn or regurgitation) 1 x per week or more;presence of diagnosis, confirmed by endoscopy and treatment of GERD; voluntary agreement to participate in the study.
Hospitalized patients; pregnant / lactating;
patients who underwent surgery of the esophagus and / or stomach; cognitive inability to understand the guidelines;
Improvement of symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Participants answered the QS-GERD Symptoms Questionnaire of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD-QS) in which the maximum score is 55 points. This questionnaire consists of 11 questions, 10 of them answered according to a scale of 0 to 5, with the following meanings: 0, absence of symptoms; 1, symptoms without repercussion no day-to-day patient; and so gradually ate 5 indicates que que constants symptoms interfere with daily activities of patients. Statistical analysis were considered the first and last assessment to which each patient was submitted. The comparison between groups was performed by Student's t test. To control confounding factors, Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) was applied. The significance level was 5% (p 0.05). 
Improvement of symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Participants answered the QS-GERD Symptoms Questionnaire of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD-QS) in which the maximum score is 55 points. This questionnaire consists of 11 questions, 10 of them answered according to a scale of 0 to 5, with the following meanings: 0, absence of symptoms; 1, symptoms without repercussion no day-to-day patient; and so gradually ate 5 indicates que que constants symptoms interfere with daily activities of patients. Statistical analysis were considered the first and last assessment to which each patient was submitted. The comparison between groups was performed by Student's t test. To control confounding factors, Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) was applied. The significance level was 5% (p 0.05). 
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and Physical Exercise
Cardiovascular Risk in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: Effect of Different Physical Exercise Programs on the Hormonal, Cardiovascular, Metabolic, Reproductive and Quality of Life Aspects
Control group: 15 women with polycystic ovary syndrome will receive standard advice for regular physical activity. The control group will be instructed to accumulate 30 minutes of moderate aerobic activity five days per week during 16 weeks. The control group will not participate in any structured physical training program. Aerobic training group: 15 women with polycystic ovary syndrome will receive supervised aerobic training three times per week during 16 weeks. It will be performed 40 minutes of aerobic exercise during each training session, which will be preceded by five minutes of warm-up and followed by five minutes of cool-down. The aerobic exercise training will be structured in four different phases with monthly increments of intensity varying from light to vigorous (from 60 to 85% of maximum heart rate). Strength training group: 15 women with polycystic ovary syndrome will receive supervised strength training three times per week during 16 weeks. It will be performed 14 strength exercises during each training session. The protocol for each exercise will be three sets of 12 repetitions at 60% of one-repetition maximum (1RM) achieved individually at the initial assessment, with a one-minute interval between sets, and two minutes between exercises. Combined training group: 15 women with polycystic ovary syndrome will receive combined training three times per week during 16 weeks. Combined training will be the combination of aerobic and strength training, in terms of intensity, duration, frequency, progression, and total duration of the program
Diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome according to the Rotterdam criteria
Other disorders such as nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia, thyroid dysfunction, and hyperprolactinemia; renal or hepatic dysfunction; or use of medications known to affect reproductive, cardiovascular or metabolic function
Increased maximal oxygen uptake after 16 weeks of physical training, verified by ergospirometry, from of a change of at least 10% in the pre- and post-intervention measurements
Improvement in quality of life after 16 weeks of physical training, verified by quality of life questionnaire, from the observation of a significant change in the pre- and post-intervention measurements
Evaluation of a new protocol of neuromuscular electrical stimulation.
Evaluation of safety and feasibility of a neuromuscular electrical stimulation protocol in ICU: a randomized controlled trial
 Patients of both sexes who were selected for the study will be randomized to the control group or the experimental group. Each group will have 20 subjects.

The control group will be submitted dayly to conventional physical therapy only twice a day for 30 minutes in each session. Patients in the experimental group will be submitted in addition to conventional therapy, a new neuromuscular electrical stimulation protocol based on chronaxie and application in various muscle groups.
Patients older than 18 years undergoing  mechanical ventilation; APACHE II Score higher than 13. 

Target sample of 40 patients.
Pregnancy; obesity (body mass index 
Outcomes found:   there was no statistical difference between the control group and the experimental group, showing that the stimulation was safe.
Outcome found:   the average time spent in the therapy per patient in the experimental group was 120 minutes demonstrating that the conduct is clinically infeasible.
Evaluation of the effect of two gingival treatments in the development of gingival disease in children with heart disease
Evaluation of the effect of two periodontal treatments in the development of periodontal periodontal disease in children with heart disease
After the initial clinical and laboratorial evaluations, the 62 patients were divided randomly into two groups of children, who were distributed according to the performed treatments:
Group 1 (17 children) -Conventional periodontal treatment scaling and root planning + Mechanical Control.
The children should have between 8-12 years of age with chronic periodontitis, with at least 2 sites with probing depth greater than 5 mm and clinical attachment level over 2 mm, bleeding on probing and gingival inflammation to clinical examination. The teeth should perform reasonably aligned, with a minimum of 20 teeth in the arch, with the clinical examination in the buccal, lingual / palatal, mesial and distal
Use of antibiotics and anti-inflammatories, steroids or no steroids in the month prior to the study; periodontal treatment in the previous 6 months, and those with any chronic inflammatory disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, or Chron
In contrast , only the gingival index (GI ) showed no improvement between periods of 90 and 180 days in group 3 and 4 ( full mouth scalling and root planning (FMSRP) , heart disease and normal respectively). Due to this fact , the IG statistically significant difference when analyzing the variations of the mean between the treatment groups scalling and root planning (SRP) and FMSRP , SRP demonstrating superiority in both the group of cardiac patients as in normal children .
By studying the results obtained by the analysis of acute phase proteins , fibrinogen that had been most prominent , with significant improvement in all 4 groups , however , with the PCR improvement occurred only for those who underwent SRP , both group heart disease ( group 1) , as the normal (group 2 ) . Analyzing the proinflammatory cytokines , IL-6 was that had statistically significant improvement for all groups, but the TNFalfa had no significant result . There was no statistical difference in the mean variation between the groups when analyzed these inflammatory markers
Preventive measures and therapies for back pains
Preventive measures and non-invasive therapies for back pains 
Experimental group (n= 9): underwent Global Postural Reeducation (RPG) - 10 sessions of 45 minutes each, twice a week for five weeks. The minimum time span between sessions was 48 hours and the maximum of 120 hours. Each session addressed equally to all patients, two positions of RPG supine (
Volunteers, both genders, aged 18 to 35 years, with pain for more than six weeks of non-specific origin in the neck and/or low back 

Patients under the influence of other postural treatment or had breaks between GPR sessions bigger than 120 hours; pregnant women
Correcting postural changes assessed by postural assessment software - SAPO and observed through the angular variation of reference points of the spine at baseline and post intervention 
Improvement in pain assessed by Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and observed through the decrease of the scores of this scale. Improvement in quality of life assessed by the WHOQOL-BREF-25 and observed through the increase of scores of this questionnaire. Improvement of functional capacity of individuals assessed by the Roland-Morris and Neck Disability Index questionnaires and revealed through the decrease of scores of both questionnaires. Assessments were done at baseline and post intervention
Clinical evaluation of the effect of the combination of Potassium Nitrate 5% and desensitizing agent-based glutaraldehyde in the prevalence of post-bleaching sensitivity
Clinical evaluation of the effect of the combination of Potassium Nitrate 5% and desensitizing agent-based glutaraldehyde in the prevalence of post-bleaching sensitivity
Two operators with clinical experience, and not involved in the screening and randomization process will be responsible for implementing the study. In this study the parallel type, split-mouth, involved 42 patients, so that each patient received the placebo gel and the gel containing desensitizing. For this, each patient will have the protection of the lips, tongue and perioral tissue whitening area held by a lip retractor (Arc Flex, FGM, Joinville, Brazil) and the gingival tissues of the teeth to be whitened are isolated agent whitener by making a barrier of light-cured resin (Top Dam, FGM, Joinville, Brazil). A desensitizing glutaraldehyde-based combined with potassium nitrate 5% will be applied which will be handled by a specialized chemist or placebo for 10 min, then rubbed with the aid of a rubber cup attached to a handpiece for 20 seconds each tooth. The bleaching procedure will be performed with 35% hydrogen peroxide (Whiteness HP Maxx 35% FGM, Joinville, Brazil) in two sessions, with an interval of one week between them where each one will be held 3 applications 15 minutes totaling 45 min , according to the manufacturer
Candidates must have all the teeth of the upper and lower canine; canine without manifestations of caries and/or restorations; exposed dentin and spontaneous tooth sensitivity; able to sign a consent form; over 18 years; Commit to attend for regular examinations; having good conditions of oral and general health; central incisors to A2 or darker color.
Pacientes who have previously done some bleaching procedure; pregnant or lactating; smokers, patients with tetracycline stains, fluorosis or endodontic treatment; patients with severe periodontitis and bruxists; use of any medication with anti-inflammatory or antioxidant action.
Check the number of patients that report spontaneous pain in any moment of the bleaching protocol and up to 48 h post-bleaching, through self-report. This number will be presented as percentage of patients with tooth sensitivity and will be named absolute risk of tooth sensitivity
The difference in color between the baseline condition and 1 month post-bleaching will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations
Elastic bandage for postural correction
Effects of therapeutic elastic bandage for postural correction
The participants chosen of random way were placed in a single group totaling 10 individuals; being 8 women and 2 men with musculoskeletal pain associated with thoracic kyphosis or protraction of shoulders and changes in postural oscillations; where they received treatment with bandage to correct these postures; applied in the scapular girdle; staying continuously for seven days; where at end of the seventh day was performed the reassessments.
Sample consisting of 10 students aged between 18 and 30 years old with protraction of shoulders; thoracic hyperkyphosis and musculoskeletal pain in the thoracic region
Acute pain; chest pain associated with diseases; vestibulopatias; allergic process to bandage and participants who were performing some other type of postural treatment
Reduction of anterior-posterior and latero-lateral postural oscillations by stabilometry from the analysis of a smaller variation than 5% in pre and post intervention measurements
Reduction in the absolute values of the anterior-posterior and latero-laterals postural oscillations of way non-significant
Influence of the day period in which exercise training is performed on cardiovascular function and sleep patterns in hypertensive subjects
Time of day influence on cardiovascular and sleep adaptations promoted by aerobic training in hypertensives 
All of the subjects will be randomly divided in 4 group:
Experimental group 1: Morning training – 16 hypertensive men will perform 10 week of aerobic training (cycle ergometer, 3x/w, duration progressing from 30 to 45 min, intensity progressing from heart rate of anaerobic threshold to heart rate 10% below of respiratory compensation point). This group will perform exercise sessions of training in the morning (7-9 a.m.).
men; aged between 30 and 65 years; hypertensives receiving anti-hypertensive drugs for 4 or more months; neither receiving beta-blockers nor non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers; neither chronotype type; inactive or insufficiently active; available to participate in the interventions at both proposed times of day (morning and evening).
Presence of cardiovascular diseases beyond hypertesion; presence of osteomioarticular problems that unavaiable to pratice exercise; systolic and diastolic blood pressures higher than 160 and 105 mmHg, respectively; obesity level 2 or above; presence of diabetes with complications or receiving insulin; presence of organ-target damage; presence of complex arrhythmias and/or ischemia during exercise.
Blood pressure decrease verified by auscultatory technique with a minimal reduction of 4 mmHg between initial and after assessments.
Sleep quality increase assessed by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Epworth Scale with a minimal reduction of 0,47 e 1,20 respectively between the beginning and end of the study; heart rate decrease assessed by electrocardiogram with a minimal reduction of 4 bpm between the beginning and end of the study; systemic vascular resistance decrease based on calculus considering cardiac output assessed by CO2 rebreathing  technique with a minimal reduction of 7% between the beginning and end of the study; stroke volume increase calculated by quotient between cardiac output and heart rate with a minimal increase of 15% between the beginning and end of the study; improve of cardiac and vasomotor autonomic modulation verified by the increase of heart rate modulation and decrease of blood pressure modulation assessed by spectral analysis technique; plasmatic angiotensin II decrease assessed by technique of HPLC with a minimal decrease of 0,04 nmol/ml between the beginning and end of the study; plasmatic angiotensin 1-7 increase assessed by technique of HPLC with a minimal decrease of 0,05 nmol/ml between the beginning and end of the study; plasmatic vasopressin increase assessed by technique of HPLC with a minimal decrease of 0,11 nmol/ml between the beginning and end of the study; urinary 6-sulfatoxymelatonin increase assessed by technique of ELISA with a minimal increase of 6,5% between the beginning and end of the study.
Use of equine therapy to improve his breath, heartbeat, balance and muscle in elderly patients
Use of hippotherapy as a tool in the improvement of blood oxygenation, heart rate variability, balance and muscle activation frequency in elderly
Experimental group: 30 elderly people without acute illness receive treatment through 30 sessions of hippotherapy, once a week, with horse in gait while transmitting the practitioner, thousands of stimuli, through the three-dimensional movements that resemble floor human being. In the beginning, the middle and the end of each 30-minute session will evaluate the variability of heart rate (heart rate monitor), oximetry (oximeter portable finger) and muscle activation (EMG). The balance will be assessed by the Berg Balance Scale, before the first session and after the thirtieth.

Control group: 30 elderly people without acute illnesses, not practicing hippotherapy, will undergo evaluation of heart rate variability, oximetry and balance and re-evaluated after 30 weeks.
Medical referral; signing the liability waiver for the practice of hippotherapy; healthy volunteers without acute diseases, both genders, aged 60 years.
Uncontrolled epilepsy; acute diseases; uncontrollable fear or self-destructive behavior; instability of the spine; severe cervical spine conditions like herniated disc; dislocations of the shoulder or hip; evolving scoliosis 30 degrees or more; hydrocephalus valve; arthritic processes in acute phase; decubitus ulcers in the pelvic region or lower limbs and other diseases that can compromise data analysis; and that is not performing any physical activity.
Improve balance of muscle activation and blood oxygenation through equine therapy within 1 year. verified by the devices cardiofrequency, electromyography and scales from the quantitative statistical analysis of the 5% probability medicções pre and post sessions equorapia.
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Simplified dental restorations in patients undergoing  Blood Cancer treatment
Conservative treatment in patients with special needs
Intervention study : assessment of the longevity of restorations and sealants placed using the technique of atraumatic restoration in  onco - hematological treatment patients. 25 patients will be served, with 14 males and 11 females. The restorations will be carried through the partial removal of carious tissue, relative isolation of the tooth, use of high viscosity glass ionomer, followed by vaseline and occlusal adjustment. Sealants will be performed in teeth with caries risk, according to the technique ART (Atraumatic Restorative Treatment). Assessments of the procedures will be performed after 3 months, 6 months and 1 year of its implementation, with the objective of verifying its longevity.

Control intervention: assessing the longevity of restorations and sealants placed using the technique of atraumatic restoration in patients without special needs. 14 patients will be met, including 8 females and 5 males. the technique of atraumatic restoration in patients without any special need. The restorations will be carried through the partial removal of carious tissue, relative isolation of the tooth, use of glass ionomer high viscosity , followed by vaseline and occlusal adjustment. Sealants will be performed in teeth with caries risk , according to the ART technique (Atraumatic Restorative Treatment). Assessments of the procedures will be performed after 3 months , 6 months and 1 year of its implementation, with the objective of verifying its longevity.
Patients between 04 to 12 years-old; patients whose parent or legal guardian authorizing the investigation; patients who did not present severe systemic involvement, that prevented clinical examination and dental procedures; patients in onco-hematologic therapy in HGPP (Palmas General Public Hospital) hospitalized or who are at beds home.
Patients whose parents or guardians did not consent to this investigation; patients outside the specified age (02 to 13 years); patients whose systemic involvement would prevent the realization of conservative technique under study; patients in the multidisciplinary team don
The restorations made by the TRA technique in patients under onco-hematologic therapy has a tendency to lower longevity than the restorations in the control group at the end of 1 year. The method used to verify the endpoint was statistical analysis using Fisher 's Exact test Test, Pearson Chi - square and Mann - Whitney Test.
Restorations and sealants made ??by the ART technique in onco - hematological patients under treatment has a tendency to more failures than the restorations in the control group after 1 year of follow up , but the results were not statistically significant (p = 0.155 ) Restorations and sealants made ??by the ART technique in patients under onco - hematological treatment in primary teeth showed 2.1 times more chances of failure in need of repair than in permanent teeth (p = 0.008). For this assessment the Cox regression  was used.
Pilates and therapeutic exercises are effective for the treatment of low back pain?
Effectiveness of mat Pilates and therapeutic exercise in the treatment of chronic nonspecific low back pain: randomized controlled trial
Mat Pilates group: 15 patients with chronic non-specific low back pain receive therapeutic intervention based on Pilates exercises. Group exercises: 15 patients with chronic non-specific low back pain receive therapeutic intervention with conventional physical therapy exercises. All participants will conduct 10 sessions lasting an hour, during five weeks, two sessions a week.
Patients with low back pain lasting symptoms from at least three months; aged between 18 and 60 years.
Practitioners of Pilates; pregnancy; history of fractures of the spine; inflammatory disorders; tumors; severe neurological impairment; inability to speak or write in Portuguese; pretreatment physical therapy for chronic non-specific pain in the last
Improves clinically important three points for disability assessed by the Roland Morris.
Improved kinesiophobia, assessed with the Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia
Effectiveness of auriculotherapy in pain of persons with cancer in chemotherapy

Effectiveness of auriculotherapy in pain of persons with cancer in chemotherapy: a clinical tria.


Subjects will be divided into two groups, treated and placebo.
Group 1 - (Treaty) - In the first session the 11 volunteers will be characterized by the application of a Socioeconomic Instrument, evaluated in relation to the pain intensity by means of the Numerical Pain Scale, in relation to the characteristics of the pain, by the application of Br- MPQ, in relation to the pain sites and the daily consumption of analgesics (doses and number of drugs consumed), through instruments elaborated by the researcher. In all the pre-established sessions (0, 2, 4, 6 and one week after the last auriculotherapy session), there will be an evaluation of the Pain Numerical Scale and the participants
Inclusion criteria will be considered: being in chemotherapy treatment and mentally oriented; Presenting pain greater than or equal to four in the Numerical Pain Scale; Be accompanied by the oncology sector (UNACON) and / or the Dor Hospital Clinic; Accept needle treatment and present age equal to or greater than 18 years.
As exclusion criteria, the presence of conditions that would contraindicate the insertion of needles at auriculotherapy sites (lesions, edema, absence of the auricular pavilion, among others) will be considered; Allergy to micropore; Terminal patient and / or with cancer of the head and neck and people who use anticoagulants.
Pain reduction of patients undergoing auriculotherapy treatment in eight sessions. To evaluate the reduction of pain, the numerical scale of 11 points, the Br-MPQ questionnaires and the instrument developed by the researcher to verify the pain sites will be used. And, to verify the expected outcome, considered a variation of at least 5% in each test, questionnaire and scale used before and after intervention.
Reduction of 70% of the pain of patients undergoing auriculotherapy treatment in six sessions. To evaluate the reduction of pain, the numerical scale of 11 points, the Br-MPQ questionnaires and the instrument developed by the researcher to verify the pain sites will be used. And, to verify the expected outcome, considered a variation of at least 5% in each test, questionnaire and scale used before and after intervention.
Electric current therapy for patients with pain caused by circulatory problems in the legs and feet
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in patients with pain caused by chronic lower limb ischemia 
A daily application will be made of electrotherapy with transcutaneous electrical  nerve stimulation (TENS) or placebo TENS for 20 uninterrupted minutes, on two consecutive days. Experimental group: 36 participants will receive TENS. Control group: 36 participants will receive placebo treatment (TENS application without current intensity). Applications will be performed at patient
72 hospitalized patients; diagnosed with critical ischemia of the lower limbs; of both genders; aged over 18; with ischemic rest pain in the lower limbs; who are waiting for vascular surgery.
Patients with contraindication for application of electrotherapy; patients who have already undergone therapy with transelectrical nerve stimulation prior to the trial.
The primary outcome is the reduction in pain after the intervention, measured by the Visual Analogue Scale and the McGill Pain Questionnaire, showing a reduction in the scores after the intervention comparing to those measured before. 
The secondary outcome is the reduction of pain medications, observed by the drugs prescription registered on medical records before in relation to those registered after the intervention,through the dosage reduction of analgesics after the intervention.
The monitoring by nurses in controlling high blood pressure and preventing complications
Effect of case management on the control of blood pressure levels and Hypertension complications prevention
The study will be two arms: comparative group and intervention group.
Participants in the intervention group will receive in addition to the usual activities at the facility, monitoring through case management for 12 months, which will include: nursing visits and other professionals (Doctor, pharmacist, physical educator, nutritionist), health education activities, home visits and telephone contact with frequencies that vary according to the risk assessment for the development of complications, assessed by complications Prediction Scale Hypertension Ulbrich and Mantovani
Adults both sexes aged 18 to 58 years;
Have high blood pressure;
Pregnant women;
People planning to change your address to another coverage area or city.
Control of blood pressure levels achieved by blood pressure values below 130 / 85mmHg, measured at baseline and after 12 months (T0 e T2).
Improve quality of life, measured by the reduction of the values obtained by Mini Quality of Life Questionnaire in Hypertension, valued at T0 and T2.
Treating lymphangioleiomyomatosis with doxycycline
Effects of doxycycline on radiological and functional assessment and metalloproteinase blockage in patients with lymphangioleiomyomatosis 
31 female LAM patients have received doxycycline orally (100mg/day) for 6 months. They underwent evaluations at basal month and 6th month through pulmonary function tests, six-minute walk test (6MWT), quality of life assessment questionnaire (SF-36) and blood and urine samples for metalloproteinases MMP-2 e -9 dosage. No placebo.
Patients with an established clinical-radiological or histopathological diagnosis of lymphangioleiomyomatosis 
Patients submitted previously to lung transplant
- Variation of urinary and serum metalloproteinase (MMP) -2 and -9 levels, after doxycycline treatment, according to the levels at the time of protocol´s admission.  - Variation of FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in the first second), obtained from the difference between FEV1 after 6 months with doxycycline and the basal FEV1.
- Lung volumes (total lung capacity and residual volume), carbon monoxide diffusion capacity and variables derivated from the six-minute walk test, such as distance walked and minimal oxyhemoglobine saturation before and after doxycycline.  - Variation of the Dessaturation- Distance Index, obtained from the ratio between desaturation area and the walked distance during six-minute walk test,  after doxycicline  - Adverse events during the treatment with doxycicline 
Effect of nursing care on prevention of dry eye in adult patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
Randomized clinical trial: effect of nursing interventions on prevention of dry eye in critically ill patients
Patients over 18 yeaars old; independent of sex; with no dry eye at admission to Intensive Care Unit (ICU); interned in ICU for at least 24 hours; in mechanical ventilation therapy; snap less than 5 per minute; in comatose, sedated or Glasgow less than or equal to 7 will be randomized into control and experimental groups.

Experimental group I: 100 patients will receive artificial tear gel after eye cleaning with 0.9% saline. Then, the professional will pull slightly the lid down with the index or middle finger. Then carry out the filling with artificial tear gel in half of each eye eyelid. Then, close passively the eyes of the patients.
Be over 18 years;
did not present dry eye at the time of admission;
Have not the responsabille authorization;
Patients with severe eye disease or with history of adverse effects after use of any of the interventions proposed and not tolerate the treatment: artificial tear gel, artificial tear liquid and saline 0.9%.
To verify the nursing interventions (artificial tear gel, liquid artificial tears and saline 0.9%)effects to prevent dry eye in adult patients admitted in ICU.  Interventions will be applied in both eyes of the patients from 12 to 12 hours for five consecutive days.  Schirmer test will be applyed to evaluate the lacrimal volume. Fluorescein test will be applyed to evaluate the ocular surface.  The expected result is: positive values in Schirmer test and no corneal ulcers presence.
To verify the artificial tears effect to prevent dry eye in adult patients admitted to ICU. The measurements and parameters used to assess this outcome is the same as described for the primary outcome.
Functional impact of Foot Orthoses in rheumatoid arthritis feet
Kinect and functional impact of foot orthoses in rheumatoid arthritis feet 
Intervention group: 28 subjects with rheumatoid arthritis randomly allocated of both sexes will make use of foot orthoses in your shoes everyday between 4-6 hours daily for 02 months. Control group: 28 subjects with rheumatoid arthritis randomly allocated of both sexes did not receive the intervention (foot orthoses) and keep their shoes everyday without interference for 02 months.
Volunteers with Rheumatoid Arthritis; both genders; aged between 18 and 75 years; ability to walk with or without the use of assistive devices (cane, crutch or walker); agree to participate by signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
Volunteers with Rheumatoid Arthritis presenting neurological disease and disability to walk; cognitive impairment; lesions on the skin of the feet; surgery on lower limb; pregnancy.
Small difference but no significant on disability of the foot and ankle for the foot orthoses group.
Small difference but no significant on global functionality of the foot and ankle for the foot orthoses group.
Study for comparative evaluation of efficacy and safety of nitrendipino (Caltren) versus nifedipino (Adalat retard) in the treatment of mild arteial hypertension.
Open label, prospective, parallel, multicenter and randomized study for comparative evaluation of efficacy and safety of nitrendipino (Caltren) versus nifedipino (Adalat retard) in the treatment of arteial hypertension stage 1.
It is foreseen the screening of 190 patients. Screen failures at 10% and discontinuation of 25% are expected.
At the initial visit, patients will be evaluated regarding the inclusion and exclusion criteria and submitted to laboratory exams and EKGs. After this week, patients who were not excluded by laboratory results will receive open-label placebo for two more weeks. Next, study treatment will be initiated after randomization (1:1) to one of the treatment arms: Nitrendipine (10 mg) or Nifedipine (10 mg), both administered twice a day by mouth. After one month treatment, patients who did not control blood pressure will have dose medication uptitrated to 20 mg.
Adult patients over 18 year-old from both genders;

ICF signed by the participant;
fertile women, independently of the use of contraceptive methods;

known hypersensitivity to study medications;
Difference between the two treatment groups with respect to the mean values of  SYSTOLIC blood pressure (mmHg), measured by ABPM (ambulatory blood pressure monitoring) during 24 hours before and after treatment.
Difference between the two treatment groups with respect to the mean values of  DIASTOLIC blood pressure (mmHg), measured by ABPM (ambulatory blood pressure monitoring) during 24 hours before and after treatment.
Effect of varicocele correction surgery on the quality of sperm
Varicocelectomy effect on the spermatic DNA fragmentation: clinical trial
with random assignment of participants
40 men with varicocele will be evaluated as to the effect of the surgery of varicocele correction in sperm DNA fragmentation, sperm quality and hormonal parameters. There will be randomly allocated into two groups:
Study group: 20 men with varicocele that pass through surgery (microsurgical varicocelectomy with microscope and subinguinal incision). Patients will be evaluated twice, before the intervention and after nine months of varicocelectomy.
Men with varicocele in grades II and III; aged between 18 and 45; not having undergone previous varicocelectomy.
Smoking; excessive use of alcohol; drug abuse; genetic damage; prior varicocele correction surgery; testicular trauma; urogenital infections suspicion; cancer; endocrinopathies; treatments that may influence the testicular functions.
Difference in sperm DNA fragmentation rate, semen quality and hormonal parameters in men with varicocele who underwent or not to varicocelectomy, verified by comparative analysis before and after nine months of intervention. For the evaluation of outcomes will be used Halosperm G2® kit for the analysis of sperm DNA fragmentation rate, spermogram following the normal range indicated by the World Health Organization (2010) to assess the seminal quality, and serum levels of hormones FHS, LH, prolactin, SHBG and FAI for hormonal evaluation. A determination of whether there are differences between the parameters evaluated before and after nine months will be made, and from statistical analysis between groups, the changes are considered significant to achieve p <0.05.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effects of exercise program during hemodialysis treatment in patients with Chronic Kidney Disease
Aerobic exercise program during intradialytic treatment in patients with Chronic Kidney Disease


Patients with chronic kidney disease in hemodialysis in the Nephrology Service of Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA) will be randomized into two groups: control and intervention. The intervention group will perform a intradialític aerobic training for 12 weeks with a cycle ergometer. The pedaling intensity will be defined by the modified Borg scale, using the patient
Diagnosis of Chronic Kidney Disease more than six months.
Patients in hemodialysis for at least 3 months.
Patients who not accepted to participate in all stages of the study.
Presence of acute myocardial infarction in the last 3 months.
improvement in exercise tolerance after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by peak VO2 obtained during the cardiopulmonary stress test.
Increased physical activity after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by pedometer. Increased submaximal exercise capacity after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed using the 6-minute walk test. Increased physical activity in daily activities after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ). Increased quality of life after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by questionnaire Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form (KDQOL-SFTM). Increased muscle strength of the lower limbs, after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by maximum voluntary contraction test. Increased pulmonary function after 12 weeks of aerobic training, measured by spirometry. Increased respiratory muscle strength, after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by manovacuometer Improved inflammatory status after 12 weeks of aerobic training, assessed by Interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF Alpha) and C-Reactive Protein (CRP). Increased muscle strength and muscle endurance after 12 weeks of aerobic training as measured by the sit-to-stand test.
Evaluation of patients with Sleep Apnea and difficulty in use continuous positive airway pressure device (CPAP) through endoscopy of upper airways under sedation 
Evaluation of Obstructive Sleep Apnea  patients with difficulty of CPAP adaptation through Drug-induced Sleep Endoscopy
All the 19 patients enrolled in this study underwent diagnostic polysomnography and drug-sleep endoscopy (DISE). The only anesthetic agent used was propofol. Sleep-endoscopy was performed using a target-controlled infusion system (Diprifusor), and a variable range of pressure was delivered through both nasal and oronasal masks. The effects of jaw thrust maneuver and its association to CPAP were also studied. DISE findings were graded according to the VOTE classification. 
Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome; both genres; age 
age 
The distribution of obstruction patterns in each group was compared through Fisher's exact test. Student's t-test was used to compare DISE findings between analyzed moments. Spearman correlation coefficient was applied to correlate DISE findings to patient's clinical data and to compliance to CPAP. All test were considered with statistical significance when p<0,05%. 
Effects of the association of CPAP and jaw thrust maneuver on the treatment of pharynx obstruction. Correlation of the pressure titrated with DISE and the one titrated in a sleep laboratory. Efficacy of CPAP and jaw thrust maneuver association in the pharynx obstruction.  
A clinical study of non-invasive brain stimulation in unilateral spatial neglect after stroke
Effect of transcranial electric stimulation in unilateral spatial neglect after Stroke: a randomized clinical trial
Transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS): applied through current stimulator battery powered using sponge pair of surface electrodes (5cm x 5cm) soaked in saline solution. A constant current of 2 mA of intensity will be applied for 20 minutes based on security guidelines in the right posterior parietal lobe. For stimulation of the posterior parietal lobe, will be placed on the anode P-4 point (international electroencephalogram system) and the cathode in the left supraorbital area after cleaning the areas with alcohol. After stimulation will be checked areas of electrode placement.

Control group (sham): The patient is placed in the same room and position of tDCS group with the same device programming for 20 minutes, and the current will be delivered by first 10 seconds and off by 19 minutes and 50 seconds.
Diagnosis of stroke of either sex, 18-85 years, ischemia or bleeding in the right parietal lobe, confirmed by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and objective diagnosis of unilateral spatial neglect.
Metal into the cranial cavity, injuries on the area of electrode placement, clinical instability, severe cognitive impairment, global aphasia, previous visual disturbances or other neurological diseases.
Decrease the degree of unilateral spatial neglect after treatment verified by Catherine Bergego scale, from finding a variation of at least 15% in the pre and post intervention measurements
Increasing the degree of quality of life observed with the European (5D) Quality of life Scale, from the finding of a change of at least 15% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Ear cavity closure with frozen bone for otitis revision surgery
Mastoid cavity obliteration with particulated fresh frozen bone in revision surgery for patients with chronic otitis media with cholesteatoma
Ten patients will undergo ear surgery for the removal of cholesteatoma and infection. Osseous depression behind the ear will be filled with particulated bone to prevent future infections. Post operative follow up consist in once in a week visits on the first month and then once a month during 6 months. Audiometry and computed tomography will be done 6 months after surgery. One year after surgery a magnetic ressonance will be performed.
Adults, with clinical indication of mastoidectomy revision surgery due to chronic otitis media.
diabetes, bone metabolism diseases, smokers, coagulation disorders 
otorreha control evaluation or stop of ear discharge. Will be acessed in the patient's clinical exam. Qualitative parameter consists in a binary choice: yes or no.
Osteointegration of the particulated fresh frozen bone in the mastoid cavity shown by computed tomography of the temporal bones performed 6 months after surgery. Radiological density could be: hyperdense, intermediate density or hipodense.
Weight loss using different amounts of carbohydrates in the diet of fighters: impact on health and sports performance
Restricted energy for weight loss with different proportions of carbohydrates in the diet of fighters: impact on health and sports performance
Study will be conducted with 18 athletes. Having two diets with different proportions of carbohydrate. Diet low carbohydrate diet with carbohydrate normo - The calorie restriction protocol will be based from the 5% reduction target body weight of the athlete to be achieved in 30 days. They will be planned from 5 to 7 daily between meals and snacks and no athlete will have meal plan below 1500kcal / d. training protocol - the maximum repetition protocol will be applied (1RM) for exercise prescription and comparison of pre muscle strength and post-intervention. maximum strength of 1RM load lifted in the last correct execution will be considered. As for strength training, volunteers will hold five weekly sessions consisted of three series of 6 to 8 repetitions / exercise 80% of 1RM with 2-minute intervals between sets over the 4-week intervention. The exercise load will gradually be adjusted according to the progress of each participant. Anthropometry and body composition - Anthropometric measurements will be carried out in three stages of the study (baseline, assessment and reassessment). Body mass will be measured (kg), height (m), the perimeters of circumferences of the relaxed arm (CB), the contracted arm (CBC). They will be measured skinfolds triceps, subscapularis, supra-iliac, axillary, pectoral, abdominal and thigh. The seven folds will be used to monitor the sum of skinfolds and also will estimate the percentage of body fat in athletes. The sagittal abdominal diameter will be measured with an abdominal caliper. Hydration and monitoring of the percentage of body water (% ACT) athletes will be evaluated by bioelectrical impedance. resting energy expenditure and analysis of respiratory gases - The resting energy expenditure (REE) is obtained from the metabolic analyzer VO2000 (Inbrasport), where the variables are analyzed: VO2 (oxygen consumption in ml / kg / min) , VCO 2 (carbon dioxide production in ml / kg / min), QR (respiratory quotient = VCO2 / VO2). Biochemical - Athletes will be subjected to biochemical tests at three times (M2, M3 and M4), and each time the fighters will hold twice the tests before and after the completion of the physical fitness tests. Blood samples will be carried out by technically qualified professional so that they can be measured: complete blood count, urea, serum creatinine and uric acid; glucose, serum total cholesterol and its fractions (LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, VLDL-cholesterol) and triglycerides. There will also be analyzed C-reactive protein, cortisol, insulin, T3. T4 and TSH. Aptitude measures physically These tests consist of measures: a) travel speed test; b) speed test; c) strength and power testing of the lower limbs; d) test strength and power of the upper limbs; e) vertical jump test; f) measure the electromyographic signal (EMG) in the vertical jump; g) analysis of the electromyographic signal (EMG) in the vertical jump; h) maximum voluntary isometric contraction test (CISG); and i) intermittent endurance test.
being male; have over 18 years; are in off-season period; with over 5 years of practice in sport; 1.5 to 2h training / d and 4 to 5 times per week; have as a minimum graduation blue band; are from 4 to 10% of their body weight over the category in which they compete.
recent weight loss history; conditions and / or are in medical or nutritional counseling for specialized treatment.
Weight loss of 5% and improved sports performance in power of the lower limbs, the 30-day period, the dietary carbohydrate consumption with 2 to 3 g / kg / weight.
Deterioration in physical performance of athletes
Evaluation of Drug Treatment Adherence of Patients With Mental Disorders.
Evaluation of Pharmacotherapy Adherence of Patients Attended to Pharmaceutical Service in a Psychosocial Care Center.
The intervention procedure consists in carrying out clinical interviews, followed by the identification of drug-related problems and develop an individualized action plan about pharmacological treatment. The procedure is based on obtaining patient
Individuals over 18 years. Diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizotypal and delusional disorders. Which are in treatment for at least six months. For which pharmacotherapy was prescribed; Those who accepted participate in the study by signing a Statement of Informed Consent.
Patients who are in crisis. Patients who have psychiatric symptom associated with a diagnosis inconclusive or not yet elucidated. Patients who have evidence or diagnosis of neurological or cognitive damage.
Knowledgement level about the treatment/medication use. The level of user awareness about the treatment or use of drugs will be set according to the percentage of individuals who report correctly the indication, dosage and method of using the drug ("when and how to use your medication") (WHO, 1993). Later, it will be used the formula: %CUM = X/Y x 100. Where: %CUM: percentage of knowledge about the medication use, Y: number of patients who respond correctly "when and how to use their medication" and X: total number of interviewed patients.
Drug-related problems. Drug-related problems is defined as negative clinical outcomes, derived from pharmacological treatment that has produced a number of causes as a consequence, does not reach the desired therapeutic goal or the appearance of undesirable effects.
The exercises for the pelvic muscles improves female orgasm?
Effect of kinesiotherapy in the contractility of pelvic floor in women with orgasmic dysfunction: electromyographic evaluation.

Group 1 (G1) consisted of 10 women, who were evaluated for orgasmic activity by questionnaire and validated coefficient. We evaluated the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles by digital palpation and electromyography, performed a protocol physiotherapists, and were reassessed on the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles, and the orgasmic activity.
 Group 2 (G2) comprised 10 women, who were evaluated for orgasmic activity; evaluated the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles; did not perform the protocol physiotherapists proposed, were evaluated on the contractility of the pelvic floor and the orgasmic activity while women of G1, and called G2-Control. Then, this group performed the same protocol physiotherapists proposed, was reassessed as orgasmic activity, and the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles, and called G2-Treaty.
Women aged between 18 and 40 years old;
With sexually active, regular partner at least one year;
Peripheral or central neurological disorders;
History of pelvic floor muscle training;
Assessment of contractility of the pelvic floor.  Digital vaginal palpation: average of three successive maximal voluntary contractions of the pelvic floor muscles for 5 seconds, separated by a rest period with a doubling time of their maximum contraction to avoid fatigue, whose undergraduate degree was performed according to Ortis scale, ie 0 to 5 degrees.  Surface electromyography: average of three RMS's in microvolts, captured by probe endovaginal (Physio-Med Services ®) connected to the electromyography (EMG-400C System in Brazil ®) after three maximal voluntary contractions and repeated the pelvic floor muscles .  These tests were performed before and after kinesiotherapy, and by a single researcher.   Assessment of orgasmic activity.  Field of the Female Orgasm Fexual Function Index (FSFI) questionnaire validated for the Portuguese by Thiel et al. (2008). The orgasm domain score ranges from 0 to 6, and this domain score <3 indicates dysfunction of orgasm.  Coefficient of orgasmic capacity - COC: coefficient devised by Penteado (2002), and defined as the ratio between the sum of the number of orgasms achieved with the partner and obtained by masturbation, sexual frequency per month and monthly. The reference value is equal to 1, and defines two classes of women: COC> 1 (high orgasmic capacity) and COC <1 (low orgasmic capacity). These instruments were administered before and after kinesiotherapy.   Physiotherapists protocol: designed and taught by a researcher who was not part of the evaluation of the pelvic floor, and consisted of 12 individual sessions, lasting 30 minutes, twice a week, and whose goal was the pelvic floor muscle training.   
The questionnaire International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (SF-ICIQ), validated to Portuguese by Tamanini et al. (2004) was used as a complement to anmenese in order to verify the coexistence of urinary incontinence.
Evaluation of Thermography in the Diagnosis of RSI in the wrist joint.
Evaluation of Thermography in the Diagnosis of RSI in the wrist joint.
We evaluated 23 subjects who had pain in the wrist, carpal and metacarpal.
 Initially between the months of August to November 2011, we performed a clinical assessment, which evaluated complaints of pain and limit movement. After were done on the same day to the affected limb ultrasonography and thermography of both hands.
Individuals of both sexes
Adults aged at least 20 years 
Rheumatic diseases
In treating inflammatory diseases
Assessment of pain and inflammation using thermography in individuals suffering from RSI / WMSD measured by average temperatures in the region of pain. It is expected that the mean highest temperature present at the site of pain.
Increase in the values of the mean difference, absolute and average temperature in the region with pain.
Multicenter Study of the Accuracy and Feasibility of the Xpert Ultra Test
Multicenter Study of the Accuracy and Feasibility of the Xpert Ultra Test

Observational, longitudinal, prospective follow-up, which is expected in Brazil, about 250 people participate in this study. 230 are listed in 
Inclusion Criteria for Case Detection Group
• Age 18 years or above;
Exclusion Criteria for Case Detection Group
• Receipt of more than two doses (two days) of TB treatment within 6 months prior to enrollment;
A single Xpert Ultra test will have sensitivity that is non-inferior to that of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay among all culture positive pulmonary TB patients for detection of M. tuberculosis in sputum if the lower limit of the 95% confidence interval for the difference between Xpert Ultra sensitivity and Xpert MTB/RIF sensitivity does not exceed 7.0% using Xpert results from sputum S1.
Enrollment of 100 rifampin resistant TB patients will allow estimation of sensitivity with a precision of +/-12% (95% confidence interval) assuming a sensitivity of between 90% and 98% and will allow estimation of specificity with a precision of +/- 9% (95% confidence interval) for detection of rifampin resistance by Xpert Ultra.
Comparison of the fake effect among non-penetrating acupuncture devices and real acupuncture
Comparison of the placebo effect among non-penetrating acupuncture devices and real acupuncture in healthy subjects: a randomized trial
The study will include 14 groups with 25 subjects in each, totaling 350 subjects, and the procedure of acupuncture or sham acupuncture is performed only once for 30 minutes. The application procedure of acupuncture or placebo will happen bilateral E25 in point (next to the navel) in 7 groups and B52 point (the level of the L2 vertebra) in the other seven groups. Verum Group acupuncture point on E25: will hold the standard procedure of acupuncture with conventional acupuncture needles in 25 subjects in E25 point, each subject will receive once the procedure for 30 minutes. Group B52 in verum acupuncture point, will carry out the standard procedure of acupuncture with conventional acupuncture needles at point B52 in 25 subjects, each subject will receive once the procedure for 30 minutes. Group Park the E25 point: will use a sham acupuncture device developed by park employees and 25 volunteers in the E25 point. Group Park the point B52: will use a sham acupuncture device developed by park employees and 25 volunteers at the B52 point. Group foam needle + E25: will use an adhesive foam on the E25 point in 25 volunteers, but as the park group, no penetration and the subjects remain 30 minutes as in the actual procedure. Group foam needle + B52: will use an adhesive foam on the B52 point in 25 volunteers, but as the park group, no penetration and the subjects remain 30 minutes as in the actual procedure. The group insertion and withdrawal E25: will insert a normal acupuncture needle in 25 subjects in the E25 point, and immediately remove this needle also remaining for 30 minutes in all to simulate the actual procedure. The group insertion and withdrawal B52: will insert a normal acupuncture needle in 25 subjects in B52 point, and immediately remove this needle also remaining for 30 minutes in all to simulate the actual procedure. Acupuncture Verum Group Sham + Park E25: This group will be used for the right side of point E25 real acupuncture needles and E25 point on the left side Park Sham device, and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Acupuncture Verum Group Sham + Park B52: This group will use the B52 actual point on the right side needle acupuncture point B52 and the left side Park Sham device, and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Group acupuncture needle verum + + E25 foam: This group will be used for the right side of point E25 real acupuncture needles and E25 point of the left side needle + foam device and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Group acupuncture needle verum + + B52 foam: This group will use the B52 actual point on the right side needle acupuncture point B52 and the left side needle + foam device and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Verum Group acupuncture + B52 insertion and withdrawal: This group will use the B52 actual point on the right side needle acupuncture point B52 and the left side of the insertion and withdrawal of the needle, and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Verum Group acupuncture + E25 insertion and withdrawal: This group will be used for the right side of point E25 real acupuncture needles and E25 point on the left side the insertion and withdrawal of the needle, and will be the subject 30 minutes after application. Regardless of the group randomly selected, the individual will follow the same assessment protocol, time to receive the procedure and reassessment.
Healthy individuals; both sexes; that and understand Portuguese; no previous experience with acupuncture; without sensitivity to change; which has not undergone surgery in the last 6 months.
Pregnant and postpartum women who gave birth in the last 3 months; prick skin lesions in the region; infectious process assets; nervous or dermal tissue disease affecting the region of the puncture; inability to understand the instructions or consent to the study; psychiatric diseases; presence of hearing impairment, visual or communication; or even have cognitive impairment / moderate or severe psychiatric.
Significant difference in surface perception measured by esthesiometry and deep, using algometry, the placebo group compared to the real acupuncture group
Subjects who go placebo acupuncture, will indicate the revaluation questionnaire underwent a false procedure 50% more than the subjects who received acupuncture real
Effect of stimulation of the senses in the head control in children with cerebral palsy
Influence of sensory stimulation in the head control in children with cerebral palsy
Control Group (composed by 17 children submitted to motor intervention based in Neuro-Develpmental Bobath concept – once a week for 8 weeks) and  Experimental Group (composed by 17 children submitted to motor intervention identical to the ones in Group Control, complemented by a program of domestic sensory stimulation with an standard market jumper- 5 times a week for 8 weeks). Total 34 children.
Children diagnosed with cerebral palsy classified V level Gross Motor Functional Classification System - GMFCS, aged 9 and 36 months. 
1) Children who completed 36 months before the final evaluation; 2) associated syndromes; 3) seizures outside clinical control; 4) structural musculoskeletal deformities preventing the execution of motor intervention; 5) Total visual impairment; 6) hearing loss
Increased activation of the cervical muscles, found by analysis and the kinematic surface electromyography, at baseline and end of study.
Increase in time to support the head, checked by means of kinematic analysis at baseline and end of study.
Diet and risk of chronic diseases among college students
Food consumption as a risk factor for chronic diseases among university students: prevalence and nutritional intervention
Group A: 35 students will receive four calls on nutrition, individually, with receipt and folders of explanation, namely the following topics: healthy eating; vitamin A, vitamin E and vitamin C.

Group B: 35 students will receive four calls on nutrition (the sessions will be in groups, with an average of 15 students per group), with receipt and folders of explanation, namely the following topics: healthy eating; vitamin A, vitamin E and vitamin C.
Inadequacies in food consumption
Not have completed a total of 3 units of food records before the start of the intervention
Adequacy of intake of vitamins and minerals evaluated by the Institute of Medicine's recommendations (Dietary Reference Intake) from the realization of equal or greater consumption values to the reference after 60 days of the end of the intervention
"Secondary outcomes are to be expected"
Success of Endodontic Treatement of anterior teeth with Reciproc system instruments
Reciproc system for the Endodontic Treatment of anterior teeth with Peripical Lesion
Comparator: Single Visit Endodontic treatment performed through manual instrumentation technique (Crow-down) and and root canal filling through lateral condensation. 57 patients

Intervention: Single Visit Endodontic treatment performed through single file, single cone instrumetation and filling techniques with the Reciproc system. 57 patients
Volunteers with anterior teeth presenting pulpal necrosis and radiographic evidence of apical periodontites whose diameter is higher than 2mm; that agree to paticipate and sign the informed consent sheet.
volunteers with teeth that will need crow placement due to advanced destruction; volunteers with a pre-existing health or oral condition that puts him at risk during the trial;  pregnant or breast feeding; volunteers with generalized periodontal desease or periodontal desease affecting the tooth to be included; volunteers allergic to any of the substances used during endodontic treatment; volunteers whose elegeble teeth has not completed its root formation, and , therefore, has an open apex; volunteers whose elegeble teeth presents radiogtaphic evidence of internal or external root resorption; volunteers whose elegible teeth has a calcified root canal space or has allready been submitted to root canal treatment; voluntters with a history of antibiotic, anti-inflamatory or analgesic use 15 days before endodontic treatment is to be performed; volunteers who have to have antibiotics prophylaxis due to bacterial endocarditis; volunteers whose elegible tooth has vital pulp tissue, even in the presence of a radiographic lesion; whose elegible teeth shows signs of root fracture during endodontic procedure; when accidents occur during endodontic procedure such as root perforation and file separation; teeth whose procedure can not be completed in a single visit due to incapacity to dry the canal (inflammatory exudate or heavy bleeding); patients that do not return to follow-up evaluations.
Changes in Periapical index (PAI) scores 12 months after root canal treatment; verified through PAI scores attributed to each teeth´s periapical radiography at each of the evaluation times; by the comparison of mean PAI scores values between the evaluation times.
Radiographic quality of root fillings; measured through inspection of post-treatment periapical radiographies using apical extension, homogeneity and taper as parameters; determined by the proportion of root fillings classified as "perfect", "satisfactiry" or "deficient". 
Management of Split-thickness skin graft donor sites: a clinical trial with three diferent dressings
Management of Split-thickness skin graft donor sites: a randomized clinical trial comparative with three diferent dressings
Three dressings will be compared: Atrauman ag, Hydrotul and Sorbalgon. 30 patients will be included and divided into 3 groups of 10. In each group, it will be utilized one kind of bandage and its effectiveness will be compared until its total epitelization 
Pacients submitted to Split-thickness akin graft surgery; age between 18 and 60 years; both sexes; donor site dimension around 10x20cm
Volunteers that carriers Diabetes; liver failure; Chronicle obstructive pulmonar disease and chronicle renal insufficiency
Total wound healing: featured by absence of pain;, bleeding; exudate; adherence and crustings. All parameters will be measured by analogic visual scale
Infection: will be diagnosed by the aspect of the wound and the culture of the wound secretion
Effect of a Pilates exercise program on flexibility, muscle performance and balance of elderly women. 
Effect of an exercise program based on the principles of the Pilates method in flexibility, muscle performance and balance of elderly women: a randomized controlled clinical trial.
33 elderly women aged 65 to 80 years were evaluated. The evaluation was conducted in two phases, the first comprising: identifying and socio-demographic data, Mini Mental State Examination; Berg Balance Scale, Timed Up and Go Test; Falls Efficacy Scale International (Brazil version) and  history of falls. Then the elderly were randomly placed into two groups: 17 in the control group (CG) and 16 in the experimental (EG). After the formation of groups, was held on the second step of the evaluation consisted of three tests in the Balance Master ® System, for the evaluation of static and dynamic balance, and isokinetic dynamometry with the Biodex ® System to assess the hamstring passive stiffness, hamstring and quadriceps muscle strength. The CG received guidance through educational booklets and the GE, in addition to the guidelines, was submitted to a Mat Pilates exercises program. The program was conducted with subgroups with a maximum of three elderly for one hour, twice a week for three months. After three months of training, all elderly women were reevaluated in order to carry out a comparative study of the results. In addition, elderly women who participated in the CG performed the same training program three months after.
Female; aged 65 to 80 years; absence of neurological and muscle - skeletal disease that preventing the holding of the exercises, as well as the use of a wheelchair for mobility; cognitive status compatible with schooling assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE).
Refusal to participate in the survey; pain complaints during the course of training; unexcused absence and without replacement in 10% of training provided.
improvement of balance through mean COG sway velocity, weight transfer, rising index, COG sway velocity, left/right weight symmetry, step width, speed, end sway  ; improvement of muscle performance of quadriceps and hamstrings through the work normalized by body weight and average power.
Improvement of passive stiffness of the hamstrings through the peak passive measured by the isokinetic dynamometer.
Adherence to DASH dietary pattern and this effect on postpartum weight retention, at primary health care, in Manguinhos - Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Proposal of prenatal nutritional assistance in primary health care, at Manguinhos
The intervention consists of 4 individual dietary counseling, monthly, for qualitative guidance based on DASH dietary pattern, rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and low fat dairy products and low in saturated fats, cholesterol, sugar and salt. Virtual messages will be sent using technology devices, strengthening the proposed guidelines and encouraging the adoption of a healthy lifestyle. 
DASH diet is already recommended as a healthy dietary pattern by several brazilian technical-scientific organizations, such as Sociedade Brasileira de Cardiologia (SBC), Sociedade Brasileira de Diabetes (SBD) e Associação Brasileira para o Estudo da Obesidade e da Síndrome Metabólica (ABESO), in addition to other international ones, due to its various benefits related not only to weight control, but also to metabolic aspects. Therefore, it was chosen to guide it to all the participants of the research. Study groups will be formed according to the adherence to the dietary pattern. 
Women; in the period 06-09 months postpartum; who have any weight retention; 
Women with chronic diseases (except obesity); in use of medicine that affects weight; who have eating disorders history; have had bariatric surgery; present an allergic manifestation to the diet; get pregnant.
Postpartum weight retention, verified by body weight, based on the finding of a decrease in pre and post intervention measurements. Adherence to the diet, verified by the evaluation of food consumption, from the DASH score application, which will allow the classification of "low", "medium" or "high" adherence.
Body mass index, verified by means of the calculation weight / height², from the verification of its variation in the pre and post intervention measurements. Waist circumference, verified by means of an inextensible tape measure, from the observation of variation of this in the pre and post intervention measurements. Body composition, verified by means of bioelectrical bioimpedance, from the verification of body fat percentage variation in the pre and post intervention measurements. Fasting glycemia, verified by means of laboratory tests, from the observation of variation in the pre and post intervention serum levels. Lipidogram (total cholesterol and fractions and triglycerides), verified by means of laboratory tests, from the observation of variation in the pre and post intervention serum levels. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, verified by blood pressure monitor, from the observation of variation in the pre and post intervention measurements. 
Effects of aquatic exercises in trunk control and their interference in gait of subjects with cerebral palsy
Effects of aquatic exercises in trunk control and their interference in gait of subjects with cerebral palsy
Intervention group: 10 individuals with cerebral palsy will be submitted to the protocol of aquatic exercises with emphasis on trunk control. The protocol consists of 16 individual aquatic physical therapy sessions, each with a duration of 35 minutes, performed twice a week for 8 weeks.

 Control group: 10 individuals with cerebral palsy will be submitted to 16 individual conventional physiotherapy sessions, each with a duration of 35 minutes, twice a week for 8 weeks.
Clinical diagnosis of spastic diparesis type of Cerebral Palsy; level II or III to the Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS); aged 6 years to 15 years and 11 months.
Uncooperative patients; unable to understand the proposed activities; undergoing orthopedic surgery less than 12 months ago; undergoing peripheral blocks less than six months ago. 
An improvement trunk control the Trunk Control Mensuarement Scale (TCMS) in total score (p= 0.012), with an average increase of 25.52% after 16 sessions of aquatic physical therapy protocol with emphasis to the trunk. 
Improved Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM-88) (p = 0.012), an increase of 6.8% in the final score after the intervention.  Improving muscle activation by surface electromyography (EMG) to the dorsi muscle of the back, with an average increase of 9.5 micro volts (mu). Best performance in 6-minute walk test, with an increase to the total distance traveled, the average went from 305,3m to 360,6m (p= 0.012), showing an average increase of 4.9m over distance for the intervention group. Decreased time spent in the Time Up and Go (TUG) (p = 0.036). Increase in score of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) gait (p = 0.088). There was no improvement in the score in flexometer Wells. Increase in the final score of the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ, PF- 50) (p= 0.026).
Effects of elastic tape on fuctional activities on healthy young subjects
Effects of Kinesiotaping on functional performance on healthy young subjects
The intervention will be characterized by the application of an elastic therapeutic bandage, which has an hypoallergenic adhesive. The bandage is attached to the skin, following the muscle and joint anatomy. The tape is permeable and waterproof, and can be used for several days without removal. In the intervention group, the bandage will be applied with 30% tension, having as parameter its resting length. The application will be held over the quadriceps muscle, on the line between its origin and insertion (anterior thigh, between the point 10cm below the anterior superior iliac spine and the tibial tuberosity), and will be kept for 48 hours nonstop, and new applications will not be held. For the control group (placebo), the application will be the same in the intervention group, and will be kept for 48 hours nonstop, and new applications will not be held, however, no tension in the bandage will be applied. The intervention group will consist of fifteen subjects and the control group will consist of fifteen subjects.
Healthy male subjects; aged 18 to 30 years; Physically active; Height between 1.65 m to 1.85 m; absence of pain and symptoms musculoskeletal
Presence of open wounds or scars in the region of application of KT; hypersensitivity and erythema; lower limb injury in the last 6 months prior to the survey
Increased functional performance, translated by an approximate 10% extensor torque gain  generated an isokinetic dynamometer; 15% increase in the distance achieved during jumps and vertical distance
Increased ground reaction force by 10% during the vertical jump, provided with the application of the elastic bandage.
A Study of Intranasal Esketamine Plus an Oral Antidepressant for Relapse Avoiding in Adult Participants With Treatment-resistant
Depression
A Study of Intranasal Esketamine Plus an Oral Antidepressant for Relapse Prevention in Adult Participants With Treatment-resistant
Depression
Esketamine group; 167 participantes: Open-label induction phase: Direct entry participants start at a dose of 56 mg on Day 1. From Day 4 to 15, dose may be adjusted per protocol at investigator’s discretion based on efficacy and/or tolerability; Optimization Phase: Direct-entry and transferred-entry participants will and self-administer intranasal esketamine (same dose) for first 4 weeks, then individualized to either once weekly or once every other week based on depressive symptoms. Maintenance Phase: All participants assigned to esketamine will self-administer intranasal esketamine once weekly or once every other week based on depressive symptoms. Placebo Optimization Phase; 166 participants: Transferred-entry participant will self-administer intranasal placebo at weekly treatment sessions for the first 4 weeks of this phase, then individualized to either once weekly or once every other week based on depressive symptoms. Maintenance Phase: Direct-entry and transferred-entry participants assigned to placebo will self-administer matching intranasal placebo once weekly or once based on depressive symptoms
Inclusion Criteria: At the time of signing the informed consent form (ICF), participant must be a man or woman 18 (or older if the minimum legal age of consent in the country in which the study is taking place is greater than [
Exclusion Criteria: - Participants who have previously demonstrated nonresponse of depressive symptoms to esketamine or ketamine in the current major depressive episode, to all 4 of the oral antidepressant treatment options available for the double-blind induction phase (ie, duloxetine, escitalopram, sertraline, and venlafaxine extended release [XR]) in the current major depressive episode (based on MGH-ATRQ), or an adequate course of treatment with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the current major depressive episode, defined as at least 7 treatments with unilateral ECT – Participant currently has an implant for vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) or has received deep brain stimulatio
Time to relapse in Participants with stable remission who were randomized in the maintenance phase - Relapse is defined as any of the following: (1) MADRS total score ? 22 for 2 consecutive assessments separated by 5 to 15 days (inclusive); or (2) Hospitalization for worsening depression, for a suicide attempt or for suicide prevention. The MADRS is a clinician-rated scale designed to measure depression severity and detects changes due to antidepressant treatment. 
Time to relapse in Participants with Stable Response (but not in stable remission) who were randomized in the maintenance phase - Time between participant randomization into the maintenance phase and the first documentation of a relapse event;Change From Baseline in MADRS total score at end of the Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The MADRS is a clinician-rated scale designed to measure depression severity and detects changes due to antidepressant treatment. The MADRS evaluates apparent sadness, reported sadness, inner tension, sleep, appetite, concentration, lassitude, interest level, pessimistic thoughts, and suicidal thoughts.Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Depressive Symptoms Using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) Total Score at End of the Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The PHQ-9 is a 9-item scale used to assess depressive symptoms. Change From Baseline in Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) Score at End of Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The CGI-S evaluates the severity of psychopathology on a scale of 0 to 7. Considering total clinical experience, a participant is assessed on severity of mental illness at the time of rating. The CGI-S permits a global evaluation of the participant’s condition at a given time. Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) Score at End of Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The GAD-7 is a brief and validated measure of overall anxiety.  Item responses are summed to yield a total score with range of 0 to 21, where higher scores indicate more anxiety. Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Healthrelated Quality of Life and Health Status as Assessed by EuroQol-5 Dimension-5 Level (EQ- 5D-5L) at End of Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome, primarily designed for self-completion by respondents. It consists of the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS). The EQ-5D-5L descriptive system comprises the following 5 dimensions: Mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each of the 5 dimensions is divided into 5 levels of perceived problems (Level 1 indicating no problem, and Level 5 indicating extreme problems). The participant selects an answer for each of the 5 dimensions considering the response that best matches his or her health “today.” The descriptive system can be represented as a health state. The EQ-VAS records the respondent’s own assessment of his or her overall health status at the time of completion, on a scale of 0 to 100.; Change From Baseline in Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) Total Score at End of Maintenance Phase in participants who were randomized in this phase - The SDS is a subject-reported outcome measure and is a 5-item questionnaire which has been widely used and accepted for assessment of functional impairment and associated disability. 
Effects of an exercise program in patients with sequelae of stroke
Effects of Square Stepping Exercise in patients with sequelae of stroke
The intervention group square stepping exercise was performed with a frequency of three times per week and for an hour and a half each session, for a period of 4 meses.Nesta intervention was used square stepping exercise as a tool of research and followed the protocol . the intervention group therapy was performed with a frequency of once a week and lasting 60 minutes each treatment group sessão.No physiotherapy exercises were carried out of balance, proprioception, gait training and strengthening of the lower limbs in the form of circuits and group, according to the needs of each patient.
Age 50 to 80 years, unilateral cerebrovascular lesions, and only 12 months before the start of the intervention, supported by computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, ability to understand verbal instructions and ability to walk without assistance or with prosthetic or orthoses (canes, crutches)
Orthopedic and neurological disorders prior stroke and clinical instability associated with severe systemic disease.
For data collection instruments were used to assess cognitive function and the dynamic equilibrium of the patients before and after the trial period. Evaluations to assess cognitive function and depressive symptoms were: Mini-Mental State Examination - MMSE to assess specific cognitive functions. Brief Cognitive Screening Battery - BBRC is the grouping of multiple tests for cognitive assessment in the following sequence: test of visual perception and naming, incidental memory, immediate memory, learning, semantic verbal fluency (animal category), the clock drawing test, memory after 5 minutes and recognition. Geriatric Depression Scale - GDS was used to assess depressive symptoms. 
Assessments to evaluate the static and dynamic balance were: Functional Balance Scale Berg - EEFB instrument that measures the performance of the functional balance of 14 items common to everyday life. Time Up and Go Test, TUG assesses basic functional mobility by analyzing the time spent by the individual to rise from an armchair, walk a distance of 3 meters and return to the chair, and the number of steps required to implement activity.
use of minas fresh cheese with probiotics  to control the prevalence of oral candidiasis
use of probiotics added to minas fresh cheese to control the prevalence of oral candidiasis– double-blind randomized study
The subjects were sorted into 3 groups: placebo, experimental 1 and experimental 2, all 20 subjects. The placebo group corresponds to the subjects that ingested cheese without addition of probiotics; the experimental 1 ingested cheese containing Lactobacillus acidophilus NCFM (DuPont Danisco, Madison, WI, USA) and the experimental 2 ingested cheese with Lactobacillus rhamnosus Lr-32 (DuPont Danisco, Madison, WI, USA). All participants received 14 slices (20 grams each) of its fresh cheese mines, according to each research group , every 2 weeks. The cheese should be eaten daily .
The research protocol was randomized double-blind, so the cheeses was packed and labeled as A, B and C, so the researcher only identified the groups after the end of the experiment (total of 56 days).
The inclusion criteria was voluntary patients users of prostheses, with subclinical findings for Candida in the oral cavity; with no evidence or symptoms of candidosis, but who had a positive result of the presence of the fungus after laboratory culture testing. Therefore, the individuals who do not present evidence or symptoms of oral candidiasis but present Candida was included in the research. Age was not be an exclusion factor for individual over 60 years old, even considering the elderly a vulnerable population, since the health conditions required for this group or any other participant was good general health, i.e. none of the subjects of the research can suffer from decompensated diseases, otherwise they were excluded from the research.
The criteria of exclusion was the presence of dementia; hypertensive patients; patients with heart diseases; transplant patients; patients with kidney diseases or those who used any type of medication to treat oral infections or had used antibiotics during the previous month; patients with intestinal complications, such as lactose or dairy products intolerance; patients presenting evidence and symptoms of oral candidosis, who were treated separately with the traditional antifungals nistatina or miconazole.
The reduction of the oral Candida colonization levels (CFU/ml) of the subjects who consumption the cheese supplemented with probiotic was observed, in both experimental groups. In group 1 (cheese containing Lactobacillus acidophilus), the difference between the means of colonization levels, pre and post intervention, was 0.9338 ± 0.2822 log CFU/ml, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) from 1.506 to 0.3615, p = 0.0021. In group 2 (cheese containing Lactobacillus rhamnosus), the difference between the means of colonization levels, pre and post intervention, was 0.8022 ± 0.2496 log CFU / ml, 95% CI from 1.307 to 0.2970, p = 0.0027. In the control group (cheese without probiotics), the difference between the means of colonization levels, pre and post intervention, was 0.6090 ± 0.3052 log CFU/ml, 95% CI 1.227 to 0.008772, p = 0.0532. The difference was statistically significant for both experimental groups but not for the control group, according to Tukey test (p< 0.05) in the pre and post intervention measurements.  
In group 1, 89.5% of subjects presented  high levels of oral Candida colonization; in group 2, 70.0% and in placebo group, 70.0%. After 8-week experimental period, the high levels of oral Candida colonization were observed in group 1, 42.0% of subjects; in group 2, 40.0%, and in placebo group, 60.0%. The reduction in the number of subjects infected with high levels, greater than or equal to 3 log CFU/ml, was more pronounced in both experimental groups. However, this reduction was only statistically significant for the group 1 (p< 0.05, Fisher test). 
Evaluation of Heart Rate With Equipment That Extends Sound of Heartbeats in Newborn in the Delivery Room
Evaluation of Heart Rate With Sonar in Newborn in The Delivery Room
After birth, the vigorous newborn (NB) with gestational age greater  or equal to 34 weeks will have its cord clamped between one and three minutes of life. If delivery is transpelvic, the NB will be placed immediately on the mother to skin contact. After this, the heart rate (HR) and respiratory patterns will be evaluated. In caesarean delivery, the NB will also be taken to genitor for establishing skin contact  and then taken to the radiant heat cot. Then the HR and the breathing pattern will be evaluated. When the completion of the initial steps of resuscitation is necessary, the umbilical cord will be clamped early.
The researcher will count HR in six seconds and then 15 seconds with sonar or stethoscope  (HR counted in six seconds is be multiplied by 10 and HR told in 15 seconds will be multiplied by 4, as recommended by the SBP). Before birth will be randomized method for detecting HR. The HR will be verbally communicate for these data be recorded and writing by the nursing team coach. A heart monitor will be placed in the newborn
Newborns with gestational age greater than or equal to 34 weeks, in which at least one of the researchers is present in their delivery.
Newborns with bad formation and those requiring positive pressure ventilation.
Sonar use to evaluate the heart rate of the newborn in the delivery room compared to auscultation by stethoscope. Rated outcome: The heart rate of each newborn will be counted in 6 seconds (multiplied by 10) and 15 seconds (multiplied by 4) using, randomly, sonar (the score is obtained by the sound of the amplified heartbeat) or auscultation by stethoscope, with the gold standard beats checked by cardiac monitor or pulse oximeter.
The life time to obtain the first heart rate of the newborn in the delivery room. Reported outcome: in each case will count the interval of time between the full output of the uterus conceptus to obtain the first heart rate, both the sonar as the stethoscope, to assess the speed at which each method can assess the heart rate the newborn.
Effect of treadmill training associated with auditory stimulation on gait and the ability to move of individuals with Parkinson
Acute effect of treadmill training associated with auditory stimulation on gait kinematic parameters and functional mobility of individuals with Parkinson
Evaluation, consisting on gait analysis in soil of 14 individuals with Parkinson disease and three tests that assess functional mobility, named Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Timed up and go (TUG) and gait speed test, then participants will be subjected to 30 minutes gait treadmill training:
Intervention Group (7 individuals) - 30 minutes gait treadmill training associated with auditory stimuli.
Volunteers with Parkinson
Present other neurological diseases than Parkinson
It is expected that patients with Parkinson's disease submitted to gait training on a treadmill associated with the external auditory stimulation show an improvement in gait parameters and more functional mobility than patients submitted only to gait training on a treadmill with no association to any other stimulus. To do so, individuals will be evaluated before and after the intervention in the treadmill with 30 minutes duration, through a kinematic gait analysis performed on an oval circuit, which will be analyzed the individual step length. Functional mobility will be assessed by the tests Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Timed Up and Go (TUG) and gait speed test 10 meters. To check the effectiveness of acute gait training on a treadmill associated with the auditory stimulus will be carried out statistical analysis using the PASW statistics software 18.0® (SPSS) and in all statistical tests will be adopted the significance level of p<0,05.
It is expected that there is a linearity in the step length values during treadmill gait training. To verify this linearity during the 30 minutes participants walk on the treadmill, the variable step length will be analyzed every 5 minutes and also will be added the calculation of the step length variability, because this details the step length measurements and is a major flaw measure the neural mechanisms of motion control.
Association of massage and surface heat treatment on tension-type headache
Investigation of association of Manual Therapy and surface heat treatment on Tension-Type Headache
The research project will last for three months with the participation of 30 female subjects. The first month (control effect) volunteers will be evaluated and will respond to pain diary, marking the headache episodes. In the second month will receive the treatment that will have 50 minutes duration and will be held twice a week for four weeks, and will consist of two intervention groups: Desensitization skin (superficial heat and massage therapy) and inactivation of myofascial trigger points (deep pressure and cross-massage) and muscle stretching. In the third month, they will be accompanied (follow-up) to evaluate the late effects of treatment. They will continue filling the pain diary for 30 days. At the end they will be reevaluated and close their participation in research.
subjects with muscular origin of headaches (tension-type headache); existence of myofascial trigger points.
Subjects with migraine diagnosis; face trauma; systemic rheumatological and oncological diseases; sinusitis; rhinitis; as well as patients in orthodontic treatment; illiterate.
Pain reduced after quatro weeks of treatment, verify by visual analogic scale, Mcguill pain questionnaire and pain diary, with statistic analysis of data before and after treatment period.
Improvement of quality of life, sleep and self-medication after 4 weeks of treatment, verify by SF-36, Pittsburgh sleep questionnaire and pain diary with statistic analysis of data before and after treatment period.
Effects of medical telephone discussion on the endocrinology referral list
Evaluation of the effectivity of teleconsultations for improving the quality of the referrals from primary care to specialized care of patients nonresidents in Porto Alegre with endocrine health conditions
The intervention group 1008 referrals will be evaluated according to the Rio Grande do Sul state
Referrals from patients from counties with at least 5 endocrinology referrals waiting appointment for endocrinology specialty. Referrals from adult patients (more than 18 years old). Referrals from the primary care. Referrals which the reason for referral is included in one of the referring protocols (Diabetes Mellitus; Hypothyroidism; Hyperthyroidism; Goiter; Thyroid nodule; Obesity). 
Referrals from patients from counties with more than one hundred endocrinology referrals waiting appointment.
Number of authorized endocrinology referrals in the intervention group compared to the control group after 1 year accessed by the Rio Grande do Sul state's referring system. To the sample size accessement, it was estimated an absolute reduction of 20% in the number of referrals in the intervention group compared to the control group. 
Number of telefone call to TelessaúdeRS hotline by the primary care physicians.
Treatment of HIV/AIDS patients with Glutamine Dipeptide
Impact of Glutamine Dipeptide Supplementation in HIV/AIDS patients treated with antiretroviral therapy.
Experimental groups: 1) 50 HIV-positive patients with stable viral load within 6 months and regular use of antiviral therapy will be treated with dipeptide glutamine (20g) dissolved in water and ingested once a day for a period of 30 or 60 days .
2) 50 HIV-positive patients with stable viral load within 6 months and regular use of antiviral therapy will be treated with soluble glutamine (12,4g) dissolved in water and ingested once a day for a period of 30 or 60 days. 3) 50 HIV-positive patients with stable viral load within 6 months and regular use of antiviral therapy will be treated with conventional glutamine (12,4g) dissolved in water and ingested once a day for a period of 30 or 60 days.
HIV positive; both genders; between 18 and 60 years; regular use of antiretroviral therapy; good adherence to therapy; HIV viral load stable in the last 6 months
pregnant women; psychiatric patients; more than 60 years old; chronic kidney disease;  swallowing difficulty.
The improvement of the patient is assessed by reduction in immunosuppression process and viral load  by conducting laboratory measurements of cytokines and the immune status indicator cells, and HIV load. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Evaluation of a therapy for the treatment of constipation in infants. 
Randomized clinical trial double-blind efficacy of Prebiotics in Chronic Constipation Funcinal in infants 

    Infants who do not receive breast milk, aged 6 to 24 months, presenting diagnosis of Chronic Functional Constipation (CCF) and not have anemia, will be invited to participate in the project. For those who agree to join the study, the researcher will ask the signing of the consent form in duplicate. Infants will be distributed in the group (intervention with fructooligosaccharide and placebo) according to the order randomization and blinded fashion. It is expected to include a total of 60 infants (30 infants in each group). Being a clinical trial, the two groups (fructooligosaccharide and placebo intervention) went through the same stages of evaluation.
    The research will be divided into three periods:
   Infants attending for the first time in the Department of Ambulatory Pediatric Gastroenterology at UNIFESP - EPM;
Hypothesis diagnosis of chronic functional constipation;
 Infants with clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of Hirschsprung
- Improvement of constipation in infants receiving the prebiotic (fructooligosaccharide); - Verified by means of diagnosis of constipation (elimination of mandatory hard stools and the occurrence of at least one of the following: painful or difficult defecation, stool with cíbalos format, cylindrical or cylindrical with cracks; defecation frequency less than or equal to two times a week) from reported by parents in the child's daily .; - An improvement of constipation around 70% in the group will receive the prebiotics (fructooligosaccharides) is expected. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected. 
Laser effectiveness in the treatment of local and distant pain in temporomandibular disorder
Effect of low-level laser therapy in nociceptive local and corporal points in temporomandibular disorder: a double-blind randomized clinical trial
Ninety women will be studied, aged between 18 and 60 years old, among them, 60 will be diagnosed with temporomandibular disorder (TMD) (Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders - RDC / TMD) and 30 volunteers will compose the control group (without TMD) . The volunteers from the TMD group will be randomized and divided into two subgroups: low intensity laser application (n = 30) and placebo irradiation (n = 30). The LLLT protocol will consist of 8 sessions with wavelengths of 780 nm, two sessions per week, totaling one month of therapy. In the temporomandibular joint the laser application will be 7.5 J / cm2 (30 mW / 10 seconds) in 5 points: lateral, superior, anterior, posterior and inferior regions around the pole. In the musculature the LLLT dose will be 5 J / cm2 (20 mW / 10 seconds): in the masseter (upper, middle and lower regions) and in the anterior portion of the temporalis muscle.
Women
Women
Reduction of pain symptomatology, verified through the Visual Analogue Scale, the application of the Short-form McGill Questionaire and the Pressure Pain Threshold at the pre and posttreatment moments, and the expected reduction is 50% or more in pain intensity and sensitivity for the group that received low intensity laser therapy (LLLT); and 20% or less in the parameters described above for the placebo group. Reduction of the levels of anxiety and stress for both groups (active laser and placebo), verified through the Beck Inventory Questionnaire and the dosage of the morning salivary cortisol at the pre and posttreatment moments, and the expected reduction is 50% or more for both groups.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Multiprofessional Program for Obesity Treatment in adolescents
Multidisciplinary Program for Obesity Treatment in Adolescents: efficacy trial
Multiprofessional program for Obesity Treatment 

Number of participants: In the first phase of the study will be involved 180 adolescents who are overweight or obese to profile and assess the prevalence of risk factors for Cardiovascular Diseases (CVD) and components of the metabolic syndrome. In the second phase will be part 90 adolescents from  those 180 that will be evaluated in phase 1, to compose three groups, two intervention groups (GI) (one group will participate in 16 weeks of intervention and another group will participate in 32 weeks of intervention) and a control group (CG), each counting with 30 teenagers.
Adolescents classified as overweight or obese according to the criteria established by Cole et. al (2000); concordance of the adolescent and his/her parents/guardians in participating integrally in the interventions. 
The exclusion criteria will be: endocrine and metabolic diseases previously diagnosed and informed to the pediatrician; long-term alcohol consumption; use of glucocorticoids and psychotropics which could affect appetite regulation; less than 70 % compliance in all multidisciplinary interventions.
Reducing body fat verified by bioelectrical impedance analysis device based on statistically significant difference (p <0.05), comparing the measures of the week before the beginning of the interventions and the one obtained on the next week after the completion of 16 and/or 32 weeks of intervention.
Reduction in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MS) based on the cutoff points from the International Diabetes Federation (IDF 2007) having as a goal a 15% reduction among the assessment performed in the week before the beginning of the interventions and on the week after the completion of 16 and 32 weeks of intervention.
Study of the Effects of Stretching and Muscle Strengthening on Pain, Function, Balance and Muscle Strength in Patients with Heel Pain
Study of Balance, Posture Control and Muscle Strength in Patients with Plantar Fasciitis
Control Group: 20 patients will carry out foot, leg and fascia plantar muscle stretching in 3 sets of 30 seconds for each exercise that will be performed daily;
Intervention Group 1: 20 patients will carry out strengthening of the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the foot by elastic resistance for 3 sets of 10 repetitions, and with toe curl and short foot exercises, as well as the protocol of the control group.
Plantar fasciitis;
age between 18 and 60.
Report of previous surgery and trauma in the lower limbs; discrepancy greater than 1.25 centimeters (cm) between the lower limbs; having performed strengthening of the muscles of the ankle and hip, and physiotherapeutic intervention in the lower limbs within the last six months; diagnosis of fibromyalgia, neurological, musculoskeletal or systemic order disease that may predispose heel pain and decreased muscle strength.
Improvement of patients' functionality with the procedures performed, assessed using a Foot and Ankle Outcome Score questionnaire. This consists of five domains: pain, other symptoms (stiffness, swelling, crepitation and limitation of Range of Movement), daily activities, sports and recreation, and quality of life in relation to ankles and feet, taking the evaluation week into consideration.
Improvement of patients' dynamic balance with the procedures performed, assessed using the Star excursion balance test: This test measures dynamic balance. The volunteer will be positioned in the centre of three lines, which will be arranged at 90º between the two posterior lines and these at 135º from the bottom line. The patient will be instructed to reach as far as they can on each line, and the seventh attempt will be measured.
Workplace physical exercise program for  painful symptoms control in nursing personnel.
Exercise program for musculoskeletal symptoms prevention in nursing personnel of Hospital Santa Casa de Misericórdia of São Carlos.




The intervention group took part in a workplace physical exercise program for musculoskeletal pain control. The exercise program was based on strenghtening and stretching exercises. The session were applied twice a week, lasting 30 minutes each session, for a period of 12 weeks. The control group did not receive any kind of intervention during the first period. At the end of 12 weeks and examintation of both groups, the control group started its participation on the exercise sessions.
active workers of nursing staff regularly registered at hospital Santa Casa de Misericórdia de São Carlos, older than 18 years old of both gender.
pregancy, presence of cardiovascular disease or methabolic disease, previous cardiac surgery, heart failure, hipertension, diabetes, hyperthyroidism, progressiva root neurologic alterations, spine inflamatory diseases, previous spine surgery and other chronic diseases which could contribute for musculoskeletal pain symptoms as fibromyalgia, kidney or gynecological alterations
Pain symptoms evaluated through physical examination, pain pressure threshold (algometry) and Nordic Questionaire os musculoskeletal pain.
Hamstring flexibility measured through seat and reach test.
Methods of feeding the premature newborn
Methods transition of offer of diet to premature newborn
Participate in this study 90 infants with gestational age at less than 37 weeks and above and equal to 32 weeks birth.
The sampling is random, stratified into blocks and, for the 90 infants are divided into three groups according to the method given power, group 1, 30 subjects who receive diet through the glass; Group 2 individuals receive diet 30 through the syringe; 30 individuals who will receive the diet-finger probe technique.
Will be included in newborns and preterm infants of both genders, with a gestational age of at least 32 weeks in the sample and 
maximum of 36 weeks, appropriate for gestational age, who have not received oral diet weight. The mothers of these infants 
Infants with gestational age less than 32 weeks or greater than 37 weeks, small or large for gestational age are excluded, 
who have received oral diet, as well as infants who show any neurological abnormalities (including bleeding 
Variation of milk spill, seen from the observation of 20 % of the amount of spill offered by the cup diet ; verified by syringe method based on the statement of shedding 10% of the amount offered diet ; and verified by probe - finger technique based on the statement of 1 % of the amount of spill offered diet.
Influence of gestational age, checked for gestational age preterm infants from the observation that the closer a gestational age of 32 weeks will be the largest spill of milk, the time elapsed during feeding, the variation of vital parameters and the time of transition from gavage to oral exclusive. 
Evaluation of folinic acid supplementation, to prevent dysfunction of blood vessels in patients with HIV and HIV-HCV
Clinical Trial Randomized, Double Blind, Placebo Controlled, of folinic acid supplementation on Endothelial Function in Individuals Infected with HIV and HIV-HCV. 
Experimental group: 35 participants received folinic acid (FA) five (5) milligrams (mg) orally, once daily in the morning, for four weeks. The control group (34 participants) received placebo. Participants were randomized. The placebo tablets and AF are indistinguishable in color, aroma, flavor, shape and size.
Monoinfected patients by with HIV; or HCV-HIV co-infected; using antiretroviral therapy; who signed an consent form.
history of diabetes mellitus; acute myocardial infarction; renal insufficiency (creatinine current
The primary endpoint is the vascular response of the brachial artery during reactive hyperemia, as measured by Doppler ultrasound before and after the intervention. The variation of at least 20% of the flow is considered positive outcome.
Secondary outcomes are changes in biochemical and hemodynamic variables at baseline and after interventions. Laboratory analysis (serum): homocysteine,folic acid, vitamin B12, creatinine, fasting glucose, cholesterol, (total, high and low density), triglycerides. Will be measured blood pressure, heart rate, weight, height.
Effects of high intensity of exercise  in female athletes 
The peripheral muscular  oxygenation and ventilatory during dynamic exercise of high
intensity players from football: A randomized clinical trial of the effects of
20 female elite  soccer players will be evaluated. Participants will be initially submitted to an incremental cardiopulmonary test on a treadmill. Subsequently, on separate days, they held 2 constant load tests, until the time limit of tolerance (100% load, ie, supra), receiving the following interventions: (1) resistive load 15cmH2O or sham (no load additional). In these tests shall be determined: (i) oxygenation and peripheral muscle perfusion (vastus lateralis) and respiratory (external intercostal muscle) and cerebral spectroscopy by lightning quasi-infrared (NIRS), (2) cardiac output (CO) by transthoracic impedance; (3) the oxyhemoglobin saturation by pulse oximetry by the finometer, (4) the degree of blood lactate through the ear lobe blood collection and (5) measurement of the brachial artery through  flow-mediated dylation by the ultrasound. After the initial assessments 10 atlhetes  will be allocated by paralell randomization to the training group and 10 atlhetes placebo, through sealed envelopes and sealed, which will be open and controlled by a single researcher. The athletes will receive prior guidance for the conduct of the proposed protocol, which will be explained the correct way of carrying out the breathing exercises, time, duration and frequency of sessions. The proposed protocol will consist of
breathing exercises using the POWERbreathe® device, which is a linear resistor inspiratory load, adjusting buccally. The athletes will perform inspiratory efforts with the device adapted to mouth, and nose clip, with incentive abdominal expansion, to train diaphragmatic muscles against the resistance imposed, which will be determined by inspiratory force percentage assessed by digital manometer. The respiratory muscle training (RMT) will be evaluated at the beginning and every week for training load settings. All athletes will be familiar with the respiratory load, and carry out long breaths, observed the period of adjustment by means of the digital manometer software.
Twenty healthy volunteers; female; non-smoking; aged between 18 and 25 years; athletes
Cardiac diagnosis; renal; hepatic; pulmonary; neurological; psychiatric; hematological or metabolic disorders; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Increase in the average difference in the time limit of the constant load exercise in cycle ergometer between pre intervention and post-intervention measures, verified by the ergospirometry method Oxycon Mobile equipment.
Secondary outcomes are not to be expected
Restorations of primary teeth in multiple cavities
Clinical performance of ocluso-proximal ART restorations in primary teeth: a randomized clinical trial
Control group 1: 75 children were treated with atraumatic restorative treatment (ART), with KetacMolarEasymix®, 3M/ESPE, Seefeld, GE. Experimental group 2: 75 children were treated with ART, using MaxxionR®, FGM, Joinville, BR. All children were evaluated after 6, 12, and 24 months by one trained and calibrated examiner to verify the clinical condition of the treatments
"
"
Expected primary outcomes: clinical evaluation of restorations:  the group in which teeth was restored with Ketac Molar Easymix should present superior clinical performance when compared to the group in which teeth was restored with Maxxion R, since it is believed that the Ketac Molar Easymix is considered the gold standard in trials due to a high viscosity. We have no information regarding the viscosity of Maxxion R  Method used to verify the expected outcome: the outcome will be evaluated at 6 months, 12 months and 24 months after the treatment performed, according to the criteria of  Roeleveld, van Amerongen e Mandari (2006)  Parameters used to verify that the outcome really happened: will be held the association of possible failures of the restorations and the associated factors, such as: type of material, upper or lower arch, the side of the mouth (right or left), the surface (medial or distal) and the tooth (first or second molar). For this, there will be performed the Cox regression test. Odds ratio 95% CI (confidence Interval)
Expected secondary outcome: clinical evaluation of restorations at 6, 12, and 24 months after the treatment performed: caries activity in the adjacent restoration tooth should be lower in teeth restored with Ketac Molar Easymix due to the material fluoride release, and the best clinical performance of the material  Method used to verify the expected outcome: will be held the association between failure of restorations according to the scores of Roeleveld et al. (2006) and associated factors tested by univariate and multiple Cox regression test  Presentation of the parameters used to verify that the outcome really happened: association between failure of restorations and parameters such as gender; biofilm in the initial assessment, 14 and 24 months; type of tooth (first or second molar); side of the mouth (right or left); arch (upper or lower); the treated surface (medial or distal); the presence of antagonist tooth; the presence of adjacent tooth, ICDAS for the restored tooth; caries activity in the restored tooth; and the adjacent tooth restoration (positive or negative  caries activity)
Cardiovascular risk factors assessment and the effect of physical activity and nutritional counseling for children and adolescents.
Cardiometabolic risk factors assessment and the effect of physical activity for children and adolescents: a continued study.
Intervention group with recreational physical activity and qualitative nutritional counseling: About 30 students will participate for four months in three weekly sessions of recreational physical activity during about two hours each and monthly sessions of qualitative nutritional counseling without adopting specific diet, totaling 4 sessions.
Intervention group with recreational physical activity: About 30 students will participate for four months in three weekly sessions of recreational physical activity lasting approximately 2 hours each.
Be enrolled in a public school of the city of Guabiruba-SC, both genders, have abdominal obesity and/or dyslipidemia.
Present preexisting conditions that preclude the practice of physical activity.
After interventions,significant reduction were seen in the students of the intervention groups with physical activity and nutritional counseling and only physical activity, for total cholesterol (10.7 and 10.8%), cholesterol of low density lipoprotein (LDL-C) (14.3 and 13.6%) and non-HDL cholesterol (13.2% and 13), respectively.
There were no significant changes in fasting glucose concentrations after the intervention compared to baseline. After interventions, insulin levels and insulin resistance (Homai - homestase model assesment) increased significantly in students under intervention with physical activity oonly (75.8 and 71.6%, respectively; p less than 0.01).
Effects of weight training program versus aerobic training on blood values, oxLDL and body weight individuals with metabolic abnormalities
Effects of a resistance training program periodized versus aerobic interval in functional parameters, lipid and oxLDL of individuals with Metabolic Syndrome
The Group resistance training periodized be represented by 20 volunteers, which, by means of 1 RM test followed by a training protocol with loads ranging from 30 to 100% of 1RM total of 16 weeks of training, each session, will have an average time of 60 minutes.

For the Group interval aerobic training, with 20 volunteers also follow a protocol which use treadmills, with a load ranging from 20 to 90% of the Reserve Heart Rate (FHR), monitored by a heart rate monitor individually for 16 weeks training, and the training average time varies between 45 to 60 minutes.
Having metabolic syndrome; not having practiced regular physical activity or have performed strength training in the last six months.
Make use of drugs or medicines; present amenorrhea; presence of inflammation and / or infection process; episode muscle tendon or osteoarticular lesions in the upper and lower limbs and / or spine; respiratory diseases, neurological and cardiovascular risk or high.
Presentation of the expected outcome: It is expected that the values of the lipid profile, such as triglycerides, blood glucose, blood pressure and cholesterol, as well as oxLDL levels, after the practice of interval aerobic training to get better results and control of their respective levels for an average period, according to studies of 6 months if the volunteers do not continue to perform activity. Presentation of the method used to check the expected outcome: The method used to verify the outcome will be the physical activity through an aerobic training and resistance training. Presentation of parameters: 60 volunteers aged between 35 and 60 with metabolic syndrome.
It is expected that after the completion of training protocols, both weathered and for aerobic, occurs decrease in blood pressure parameters in volunteers who exhibit the same changed. Studies have shown that after physical activity, there may be a reduction of up to 5 mmHg, and consequently improve the quality of life of all participants as well as their motor skills.
Analysis of the factors that may be related to the emergence of postural deviations in school.
Analysis of risk factors related to postural changes in children from the city of Santa Cruz / RN

This is an epidemiological, cross-sectional study, without intervention, assessment of postural health of schoolchildren. 212 children from the city of Santa Cruz, infants were evaluated, and 123 constituted the group with scoliosis; 89 and the group without scoliosis. The students were assessed at a single time at the school for nursing and physiotherapy students previously trained. For evaluation of posture and risk factors associated with it, the instrument consisted of: identification, postural assessment test (Adams, lateral and anteroposterior profile), flexibility of the posterior muscle chain, sociodemographic characteristics (age, sex, address, parental education, family income), anthropometric (weight, height, BMI, body fat percentage), assessment of life habits, sexual maturation and ergonomic analysis (backpack weight and measures of school furniture).
The study included children and adolescents aged between 07 and 17 years enrolled in primary or secondary schools, municipal or urban schools, in the morning or evening, in the city of Santa Cruz / RN, whose parents or guardians signed the informed consent (IC) approved by the Ethics in Research Involving Human UFRN.
Presence of physical and / or mental efficiency, orthopedic injury, trauma and / or rheumatologic that prevented the maintenance of orthostatic position.
The final study sample consisted of 212 school children, 41.51 % (n=88) were male and 58.49 % female (n=124) , aged 7:17 years. The refusal rate for participation in the study was less than 15.2 % (n=38). The prevalence of scoliosis was 58.1 % (n=123) , more frequently in females [83 (39.2 %) vs 40 (18.9%)].
In the analysis in a bivariate model , we observed that scoliosis is positively associated with age range of 13 to 15 years , the female gender , the maturational stage pubertal and post -pubertal , overweight / obesity and muscle shortening of the posterior chain lower limbs . And inversely associated with seat height of inadequate school chair , and a tendency to habit of sleeping for more than 10 hours per night. However , in the multivariate model the female gender , pubertal and post- pubertal stage of sexual maturation , overweight / obesity , muscle shortening and time to drive thighs in school furniture were positively associated with scoliosis. While the habit of nocturnal sleep up to 8 hours ( 8 to 10 am ; > 10h ) and the habit of sleeping in network showed an inverse association with the presence of scoliosis.
Effect of the Pilates in elderly
Effect of the method pilates in flexibility, quality of life and level of pain in the elderly.
Experimental group: 14 women were evaluated over health care, specific tests of pain (visual analogue scale), flexibility (popliteal angle test and sit and reach test) and quality of life (SF-36 questionnaire) and subsequently subjected to training with Pilates for 1 hour, twice a week for 8 weeks: control group (CG): 17 elderly women were assessed on health care, specific tests of pain (visual analogue scale), flexibility (Test popliteal angle and sit and reach test) and quality of life (SF-36 questionnaire) and later groups performed and given lectures 4 for 8 weeks. The control group received training Pilates after revaluation.
Women over 60, who reported the presence of chronic musculoskeletal pain, continuous or essentially continuous with exacerbations for at least six months prior to the study.
Neurological symptoms, discrepancy between the lower limbs greater than two centimeters, ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, herniated disk, tumor, infection, vertebral fracture, cauda equina syndrome, cognitive impairment and cardiovascular or dropouts during the intervention period.
Improves body flexibility and muscle isquiocrural, decrease level of pain and maintenance of quality of life
Improved quality of life
The effect of the operating group for care teaching with their feet to prevent risk of injuries on the feet of people with Diabetes. 
The effect of the operating group for care teaching with your feet in the prevention of skin integrity impaired risk of the feet of people with diabetes mellitus
Experimental group: 40 people with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 who will receive educational intervention through an illustrative folder containing the information of prevention of diabetic foot in 08 sessions of group meeting lasting 60 minutes for 03 weeks.
Control Group: 40 people with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 who will receive routine information about diabetes Mellitus at the health unit in 08 group sessions lasting 60 minutes for 03 weeks without receiving the illustrative folder.
People of both sexes with Diabetes Mellitus Type II diagnosed for at least five years; be registered in the Family Health Unit ; have the age of eighteen.
People of both sexes, with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus; Presence of ulcers in the feet; Presence of amputations in the lower limbs; Presence of thrombosis; Deficit in cognitive ability defined by the Mini Mental State Examination (MEEM).
To assess physical parameters of foot care on: skin, hair (Tissue Integrity Assessment Scale: skin and attachments), blood circulation, sensitivity (tactile - Monofilament 10.0 and Vibratory with tuning fork - 128 hpz), plantar pressure (baropodometer) And temperature Tissue Thermographic Chamber) of the feet of people with Diabetes Mellitus. To evaluate the knowledge and intention to self care with the feet of people with DM, before and after the development of the teaching of foot care through the operative group (Foot Care Intent Questionnaire).
Secondary outcomes are not expected. 
Reflexology feet for lumbar pain relief acute related to work of nursing team: randomized controlled trial
Reflexotherapy podal for lumbar pain relief acute related to work of nursing: team randomized controlled trial
Experimental group: 100 participants with acute low back pain receive the intervention (foot reflex zone massage). Control group: 134 participants with acute low back pain will receive placebo intervention, namely in the areas corresponding to massage reflexotherapy with soft touch without specific therapeutic effect.
The intervention in the experimental and control group will be held in two sessions in the range of 3 days between intervention
Professional nursing staff of HU; presenting acute low back pain nursing professional active in hospital environment; present feet free of injury or healthy;age between 18 and 80 years
Subjected to parallel treatment for relief of low back pain or complementary therapy; participation and some other research for tatramento of pain; present vascular disorders in lower limbs, varicose ulcers or thrombosis.
Reduction of acute low back pain of professional nursing staff, determined by the visual analog scale and intensity at pain evaluation (EVA) that is characterized by a similar scale to a ruler that contains a numeric markers line ranging from 0 to 10 and under figures are figures that symbolize the facial expression on the intensity of the pain. This pain is set to take (represented by the numbers 0 to 1), moderate (3 to 7) and intense (8 to 10). Applies the scale before and after intervention.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Effect of muscle endurance training in elementary public school teachers 
The chronic effect of stretching taken before or after exercise for hamstrings on musculoskeletal symptoms in a group of public school teachers of Matinhos-PR
Participated in this study 31 teachers: 16 in Resistance Training Group and 15 teachers in the Control Group. The muscle endurance training consisted of two sets of 15 repetitions of knees flexion and extension, five seconds in concentric and five seconds eccentric phases, with range of one minute between sets, twice a week, during seven weeks. The exercises were carried out with maximum load 50% at 1st-4th weeks and with the maximum load of 60 at 5th-7th weeks. The groups were assessed before and after seven weeks. The CG participated at evaluations but not at training.
Effective municipal elementary school teachers, working in classrooms, directly with the students;
General health condition;
Teachers retired; 
Current pathology or early that prevented evaluations and/or exercises; 
Peak of torque and rate of force development increase, measured by load cell. Musculoskeletal disorders decrease, evaluated by The Nordic Questionary. 
Strength increase, evaluated by 10 Repetion Maximum test (10RM). 
Immediate influence of podal elements of postural insoles over weight bearing, balance and posture
Analysis of immediate influence of podal elements of proprioceptive insolves on the human posture
Intervention: podal elements will be placed under the feet of the individuals in the study group. The podal elements are reliefs placed by the researcher at specific points under the feet to change the posture. The control group did not receive any intervention, they just wait five minutes to re-evaluation. Intervention and control group: 30 participants each. Only one intervention will be made.
Adults between 20 and 40 years of age; able to remain in the standing position without support; without musculoskeletal pain complaints at the moment of evaluation; with assimetries of  shoulder ande pelvic girdle; able to understand  and agree with the informed consent.
Individuals with neurological sequelae (resulting from stroke, head trauma and other neurological diseases); reporting symptoms of vertigo or dizziness; pregnant women; individuals who have performed surgery on the spine or feet; presence of diabetic or varicose ulcers on the feet; full or partial amputation of limbs; presence of some kind of visual impairment; individuals who are being treated with therapeutic insoles; difference in length of lower limbs greater than 5mm.
Improving balance, checked by decreasing the oscillation center of gravity after the intervention in the study group. The measures to be used are the length, the area of the oscillaton of center of gravity and its displacement in the sagittal and frontal plane.There is no consensus in the literature as the standards values for normal subjects. We will analyze the variation before and after, and what is expected is that the variables decrease.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effect of electrical stimulation on pain and masticatory muscle activity in women with temporomandibular joint dysfunction.

Effect of high voltage electrical stimulation - negative pole - on pain and electromyographic activity of masticatory muscles in women with temporomandibular disorders.
Experimental Group (n=15): Women who received electrical stimulation with high voltage equipment connected.
Parameters of stimulation:
The study included women with TMD, diagnosed according to RDC / TMD axis I, with pain and / or fatigue in the muscles of mastication during functional activities for a minimum period of six months. The volunteers had body mass index (BMI) of up to 25 kg/m2. 
The study excluded women with missing teeth, with dental prosthesis, with systemic diseases such as osteoarthritis, osteoarthritis and diabetes, history of trauma to the face and the temporomandibular joint, joint dislocation, facial paralysis and orthodontic treatment and medication.
The primary outcome in the study was analgesia, which was assessed by visual analogue scale.
The secondary outcome in the study was to improve motor control of the masticatory muscles, which was evaluated by surface electromyography by RMS parameter.
Postoperative physiotherapy in kidney transplantation.
The impact of physiotherapy on exercise tolerance, muscle strength, pulmonary function and quality of life in kidney transplant patients six months after surgery.

Control Group was composed of 30 individuals, where the guidelines were taken once a day by a physiotherapist, in the afternoon. Consisted of: general guidelines as to the breathing exercises associated with elevation of upper limbs, need and importance of walking the day of cough. Intervention Group also comprises 30 individuals, where the protocol was performed once a day in the afternoon, with supervision and guidance of a physiotherapist. Consisted of: respiratory therapy and motor that will consist of general guidelines (same as the control group), breathing exercises associated with elevation of upper limbs (3 sets of 10 repetitions) resistance exercise for upper limbs using dumbbells (3 sets of 10 repetitions) walk down the hall with supervision, up and down stairs (1 flight of stairs with a gradual increase).
Patients undergoing living donor kidney transplant; Any sex; Age 18 to 60 years.
Age 18 to 60 years; Any sex; Time of invasive mechanical ventilation longer than 24 hours post-transplant; Stay in the intensive care unit, ICU, for a period longer than 48 hours; Cognitive interfering in the techniques to be instituted; Pulmonary and cardiovascular complications in 24 hours after renal transplantation, such as pneumonia, pneumothorax, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, deep vein thrombosis and / or pulmonary embolism; Patients who underwent surgical intervention; Patients who present contraindications for testing the six-minute walk: orthopedic impairments, unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction in the last month, heart rate (HR) greater than 120 bpm at rest, systolic blood pressure greater than 180 mmHg or diastolic greater than 100 mmHg; Intraoperative death.
In the intervention group, a higher gain repiratória muscle strength at the time of hospital discharge, only MIP was observed when compared to the control group, which was verified by the manometer, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre- and post-intervention measurements.
There was no significant difference between the days of hospitalization in the control group and intervention group, which was verified by the number of days of hospitalization of each patient, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post measurements intervention. Average of 7.1 days of hospitalization for GC and 6.7 days for GI.
Effect of the Pilates in elderly
Effect of the method Pilates in relation:  thoracic hyperkyphosis and balance postural in elderly women
Control group: 17 elderly women participated in 4 lectures for eight weeks, which included topics that showed the importance of exercise for the elderly population and changes of elderly and the influence of this process in the daily activities, the researchers asked the volunteers not changed the routine during lectures. Experimental group: 14 elderly women, the training consisted of exercises of Pilates Method that was conducted in 16 sessions arranged in eight weeks and the frequency of two sessions per week with duration of the one hour per session. The volunteers were randomly assigned.
Volunteers of the feminine gender,  aged between 60 and 75 years, angle larger than 40º in the curvature of the thoracic spine in the sagittal plane.
They don
The study noted that after application of the Pilates Method was effective in decreasing the angle of thoracic kyphosis measured by computerized photogrammetry. As for the balance of the results assessed by the Berg Balance Scale showed improvement of balance for both groups.
Unrealized
Electroacupuncture and Manual Acupuncture in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis
Electroacupuncture and Manual Acupuncture in Patients With Knee Osteoarthritis: Randomized Controlled Trial
Therapeutic randomized clinical trial, with 2 arms, single-blind. Randomization will be performed using the permuted-block  method with sequentially numbered, opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE). G1=Eletroacupuncture treatment (n=30): signal 3 with two frequencies: 3 and 100 Hz, with 3 s to each frequency during 30 minutes. G2 = Manual Acupuncture treatment (n=30): technique with handling every 3 minutes after placing the needles for 30 minutes. Points used in both treatments are: LI-4, F-3 bilaterally and E-36, E-35, Xiyan and BP-10 on the affected side. Both groups will receive different treatments. Thus there will not be placebo intervention. The following assessments will be performed immediately before and after treatments (in the same day): a) Pain intensity assessement with a visual analog scale; b) Pressure pain threshold measurement with a pressure algometer; c) Peak of knee extensor torque with an isokinetic dinamometer; d) Mobility assessment with the Timed Up and Go Test. All the assessments will be performed by an investigator not involved in treatments and he will be blind to participant´s group allocation. Due to the nature of interventions it will not be possible to blind participants and therapist. Treatment sessions will be performed during afternoon between June and December of 2012
Pacients with knee pain, with minimal intensity 2 in visual analogic scale (0-10); Radiographic exam showing knee ostearthritis degree II, III or IV accordingly Kelgren and Lawrence classification
Patients with a history of cancer; dementia; neurological deficits (sensory or motor); cardiac pacemaker; decompensated type I diabetes; uncontrolled systemic arterial hypertension; morbid obesity; currently taking antidepressants; anti-inflammatory steroids in the last six months; tranquilizers; and that are currently under physiotherapy sessions
Pain intensity decreased assessed by visual analog scale before and after manual acupuncture and electroacupuncture sessions. It is expected that visual analog scale show lower values after treatments
Pressure pain threshold increase, measured by a pressure algometer; Peak of Torque increase, measured with a isokinetic dynamometer; Deacrese of time to perform the Timed UP & Go test
Interaction between genes of inflammatory mediators and the effects of physical exercise in older women
Interaction between single nucleotide polymorphisms of the genes of TNF-alpha, IL6, IL10 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the effects of physical exercise in older women
Two training protocols:
Group 1: muscle strength training of the lower limbs at 75% of 1 maximal resistance, 3 times per week for 10 weeks.
Women above the age of 65; community-dwelling
Elderly people with cognitive impairment detectable by the Mini Mental State Examination, acute phase inflammatory disease, tumor growth in the last five years,  current use of immunomodulating medications, amputation or lower limb fracture in the last 6 months, presence of any neurological disease and current participation in an alternative exercise programme.
Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP): TNF-alpha (rs1800629); IL6 (rs1800795), IL10 (rs1800896), BDNF (rs6265 and rs4923463)
Depressive symptoms: Geriatric depression scale
Homeopathy in the cocaine-crack dependence.
Homeopathic potencies of Opium and Erythroxylum coca  in the integrative treatment of cocaine dependence: randomized, parallel group, placebo controlled, double-blind trial 
The 52 patients randomized to the Homeopathy group will be treated as follows: 
- CAPS-AD treatment as usual; 
104 patients who meet the criteria for cocaine dependence from the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and related health problems 10th revision - World Health Organization.  Fixed address; capacity and willingness to give informed consent and to comply with study procedures were also required.
Cocaine abstinence at inclusion interview; disabling clinical or psychiatric diseases that would hinder regular participation in the study. Acupunture or homeopathic treatment simultaneously to the study; simultaneous participation in another clinical trial; pregnancy; patients who are assumed to have a linguistic, intellectual or any other reason for not understanding the meaning of the clinical trial and for not complying with the necessary study procedures. Patients that after inclusion and first medical visit do not return for any visit will be excluded and their data will not be used for statistical analysis only for 
Primary efficacy measure will be the increase of the mean of abstinent days at weeks 7 and 8 assessed by means of a standardized consumption sheet.
Increase in the mean of abstinent days; reduction in cocaine craving (assessed by means of Minnesota Cocaine Craving Scale) and improvement in quality of life (assessed by 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey). Tolerability will be assessed by adverse events reported in both groups during the 8 weeks of study duration.
Effect of supplementation of chromium in glucose of diabetic patients
Effect of Supplementation of Chromium Picolinate on blood glucose with Type 2 Diabetes 
P1 Group: 40 patients with type-2 diabetes, poorly controlled, will ingest a capsule containing 300 micrograms of chromium picolinate, twice daily (after breakfast and dinner), during 4 months. After this period, patients begin a new phase, in which they will ingest a capsule containing 120 milligrams of placebo (magnesium stearate, aerosil, microcrystalline cellulose and lactose), twice daily (after breakfast and dinner) , during 4 months. 

P2 group: 40 patients with type-2 diabetes, poorly controlled, will ingest a capsule containing 120 milligrams of placebo (magnesium stearate, aerosil, microcrystalline cellulose and lactose), twice daily (after breakfast and dinner ), during 4 months. After this period, patients begin a new phase, in which they will ingest a capsule containing 300 micrograms of chromium picolinate, twice daily (after breakfast and dinner), during 4 months. 
Volunteers diagnosed with type two diabetes mellitus according to the criteria of the American Diabetes Association two thousand and eleven; both genders; presenting glycated hemoglobin greater than or equal to seven percent; not in use of insulin; age between thirty and seventy years; not have taked mineral vitamin supplement in the last three months
Volunteers taking insulin and / or corticosteroids; showing endocrinopathy (cushin syndrome; acromegaly; hyper or uncontrolled hypothyroidism); kidney disease; cancer; infection and anemia; pregnant women; lactating women
 
The glycemic profile (fasting blood glucose, postprandial blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin) showed improvement after 4 months of supplementation with chromium picolinate, compared the differences between the groups
No improvement was found in the lipid profile (total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides)after 4 months of supplementation with chromium picolinate, compared the differences between the groups
Evaluation of effect of probiotic in the treatment of cancer sores
Efficacy of the probiotic in the treatment of patients with recurrent aphthous stomatitis
Test group 30 patients will receive 2 envelops per day with probiotic. The patient must intake the envelops during 120 days.
Control group: 30 patients will receive 2 envelops per day with placebo. The patient must intake the envelops during 120 days.
Patients with a history of recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS) with age between 18 to 60 years, both genders; suffering from RAS for at least one year, with ulcers at least once a month; who had signed informed consent.


Patients with a history of EAR under age of 18 or over 60 years; chronic smokers or alcoholics ; pregnancy or it suspicion ; patients with current or previous malignancies ; undergoing chemotherapy or radiotherapy ; suspected or history of congenital or acquired immunodeficiency ; under suspected or history of Crohn
Reduction in the number of ulcers crisis; Reduction of painful symptoms (DOR) during crises assessed by visual analogue scale Reduction in mean time to repair lesions (measured in days) Reduction in lesion size (measured by ruler)  Reduction in the cytokine levels: Th1 (IL12-p70, INF-g ) Increase in the cytokine levels: Th2 (IL10, IL4)  Reduction in the cytokine levels: inflamatory (TNF-A, IL6, IL17), 
Incidence of side-effects flatulence and leaky gut.
Improve Immunity Through the Physical Exercise to Heart Patients
Improves the Immune System Through of Exercise for Patients with Chronic Heart Failure
Forty patients were randomized by drawing randomly and proportionally between the two arms of the study, characterized as aerobic exercise of moderate and high intensity. However, the patient was masked as to identify the group to which he belongs was, because it was only informed heart rate stipulated by cardiopulmonary exercise testing, exercise intensity corresponding to which the same would hold, not being informed at the same if this was moderate or high intensity. All patients underwent the same type of aerobic exercise on a treadmill for 12 weeks, with a frequency of 3 times per week, in which differed by the intensity, and then divided into: Control Group (n = 20): continuous aerobic training of moderate intensity, 75% of Heart Rate stipulated by cardiopulmonary exercise test, lasting 40 minutes. Intervention group (n = 20): High Intensity Interval Training, sustaining the greatest time to 92% Heart Rate stipulated by cardiopulmonary exercise test, using 2-3 minutes of active rest at 75% Heart Rate, characterizing the interval workout, 40 minutes. In addition to aerobic exercise for 40 minutes, the patient underwent five to ten minute warm up and 10 minutes of stretching finals. During exercise, both groups used a heart rate monitor to control the intensity of exercise.
Patients diagnosed with Chronic Heart Failure functional class II and III of Ischemic or hypertensive. Ejection fraction less than 45%. Male. Minimum age 35 years and and maximum of 80 years old. Clinically Stable and being Released by medical assistant to join the program of cardiopulmonary and metabolic rehabilitation through exercise. Not having made or had complications hospitalization in the last month. Sedentary.
To have present as uneventful clinical decompensation with or without hospitalization. Stop taking medicine without doctor consent. Introduced in acute inflammatory diseases. Being patient with primary pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary infections or active pulmonary thromboembolism. Being with clinically decompensated systolic blood pressure above 180mm Hg. Being patient with renal failure, unstable angina, ventricular arrhythmia, have histories of cardiac events (acute coronary syndrome, cardiac surgery, myocardial infarction) within the last four months. Introduced orthopedic or neurological limitations that prevent them from doing physical exercise.
After the intervention period of 12 weeks was found increased anti-inflammatory marker (interleukin 10), together with a decrease in  pro-inflammatories markers(TNF alpha, inteleucina 6), it was observed increase tolerance to exercise over time during the exercise test with progressive loading, it was represented by an increase in peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak). It was also found the increase relaxation of the cardiac muscle, which represents an improvement in diastolic function. The decrease in heart rate and  blood pressure in resting and the increase in peripheral arterial blood flow was observed at the end of the study. There was a decrease on cell death associated with increased anti-oxidant function. Finally it was found an improvement in quality of life.
.
Health care college student: evaluation of Anxiety and orofacial pain
Health care college student: assessment and treatment of Anxiety and and the presence of
TMD
Will be held as an intervention for the three treatment groups with auriculotherapy using mustard seed, 12 sessions twice a week lasting one and half month.
Auriculotherapy is applied in three groups of volunteers:
Students of the courses  pharmacy, physiotherapy and dentistry; Federal University of Alfenas of nursing, students identified with high levels of anxiety through Questionnaire STAI State and Trait; older than 18 years; of both genders
Students in other types of treatment for anxiety and temporomandibular dysfunction; pregnant; students who do not agree to participate; those who do not attend at least 10 sessions of auriculotherapy
Reducing the high level of anxiety level down grade verified by Trait Anxiety Inventory-State (STAI) (ANDREATINI, 1993). In this instrument the answers are given in Likert scale of four points (1-absolutely not the 4-very much). The score of each part varies from 20 to 80 points, which may indicate a low level of anxiety (0-30), medium degree of anxiety (31-49) and high anxiety level (greater than or equal to 50)
Reduction of temporal muscle activity evaluated by surface electromyography and observed from a variation of at least 5% in the pre- and post-intervention measurements of the RMS values
The impact of dogs therapy for children with cancer
The impact of the Animal Assisted Therapy (AAT) in oncological pediatric patients on physiological and psychosocial variables
The intervention is characterized as participation in three assisted animal therapy group sessions. The frequency should be a weekly session lasting 30 minutes in an open group of five to seven participants per group( to be achieved total of 30 participants) . A female dog of Labrador breed, four years old will be used. It
Children of both sexes; 6 to 12 years old; diagnosis of a solid tumor; current diagnosis or relapse less than six months; with good clinical condition; signature of the Terms of Consent and Assent.
Exclusion Criteria (study): children did not identify with the TAA; with serius mental problems what can cause an accident with the animal; no conclusion of the TAA program; incomplete answers to questionnaires applied; to allergic animals.

Exclusion criteria for the sessions: isolation precaution; presence of wound surgical; use of invasive device; presence of ostomy; neutropenia; fever; diarrhea; vomiting; respiratory symptoms; being hospitalized.
Improved stress level / humor, measured by self-report instruments. The improvement/ effectiveness will be seen when the analysis pre and post intervention are significant (p <0.05) determined using the Mann-Whitney test
Improvement in the symptoms of pain and quality of life, measured by self report scales.The improvement/ effectiveness will be seen when the analysis pre and post intervention are significant (p <0.05) determined using the Mann-Whitney test
Educative practice and maternal stress of premature infant: randomized clinical trial
Effects of prematurity: mother stress and metabolic programming after hospital discharge /Stress and maternal role after an educational intervention
15 mothers of premature newborns hospitalized in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in the university hospital selected by randomization will be part of the intervention group of the study and receive educational activities with themes about preterm care. The activities will be conducted as follow: The educational activity will be divided in two consecutive days, lasting one hour and thirty minutes each. The activities will be conducted by a nurse and a graduate student in Nursing and implemented in accordance with the following steps:
1) Literature review to identify issues related to the care of preterm infants in the hospital and at home that are frequently reported by mothers as doubts. The themes that emerged were: nursing, care breasts, milking and milk storage, complications signs (fever, crying, convulsions, changes in respiratory rate, etc.) and care with medication, baby hygiene, diapering and care of the preterm clothes;
Preterm under 37 weeks of gestational age; preterm without malformation; teenager mother following with law responsable; literacy mother. 
Preterm has left for adoption; mothers who have related psychiatric problems; mothers who autorelate that are in continuous use of controlled drugs (anxiety or depression); mothers with medical complications or who have gone to death during the study; illiterate mothers; teenagers mothers without law companion; mothers who did not attend the consultations on the follow-up clinic between the 3rd and 6th month after discharge from the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.
Reduction of maternal stress level between the 3rd and 6th month after discharge from the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit measured by the Parental Stress scales (measured in hospitalization), in which mothers must submit scores between 3 and 4 levels, that is considered moderate and high level of stress. After discharge the mother stress will be measured by the Parental Stress Index scale, during the preterm apointment in the follow up clinic, this scale is expected to the mothers will have lower scores than the 90th percentile, which indicates a lower level of stress.
Increase the mother's knowledge about caring for preterm infants that will be measured by the validated questionnaire of maternal knowledge analysis, pre and post-test. This questionnaire is expected to mothers, in the intervention, group show higher scores in the post-test than the mothers in the control group
Evaluation of postural balance in older adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment
Evaluation of static and dynamic balance in elderly patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment
Thirty older adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and 30 healthy elderly subjects were selected. The assessment of postural balance was performed in the standing position with and without cognitive task for all seniors. Postural balance was assessed using the three-dimensional electromagnetic equipment , who has aimed to measure any fluctuations that make the body in a standing position. This evaluation lasted 60 seconds in each sensory condition (first with eyes open, then with eyes closed, then the elderly was over an area of 2 cm foam). After this assessment, further evaluation with all seniors was held in a standing position and measure the oscillation of posture as he spoke the name of the colors he saw on a screen attached to the wall one meter away. For all evaluations, comparisons between healthy elderly and MCI and elderly in the group itself were made. Increased postural sway, interference lounge with open or closed eyes on a soft surface, the relationship between posture and cognitive performance previously assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination and the postural strategy (greater ankle motion was analyzed or hip) more used to maintain the standing posture.
Healthy volunteers and with mild cognitive impairment, both of genders; aged between 65 and 75 years; literate (minimum education of four years of formal education), present good understanding, able to identify colors; accomplish all test items Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB).

 To define the diagnostic groups were included:
Volunteers with metal devices in the body and pacemakers; history of dementia or depression; cognitive changes secondary to other degenerative diseases such as Parkinson
The reduction of static body balance was observed in volunteers with mild cognitive impairment when compared to the healthy group through the larger displacement of volunteers with mild cognitive impairment in all sensory conditions (eyes open, eyes closed and on a soft foam).
Found less muscle strength in the lower limbs and shorter time to march the execution, with the lowest total score in the Short Physical Performance Battery Battery Tests (SPPB), lower cognitive scores on the Mini Mental State Examination test the volunteer group with mild cognitive impairment when compared with the group of healthy volunteers. Assessment of postural balance through body movement showed higher body displacement when sensory information was taken as vision and proprioception of the feet and higher cost of the dual task, given in percent, on body balance in the group of volunteers with mild cognitive impairment.
Early exercise in patients with artificial breathing



Early mobilization of critical patients in mechanical ventilation



The selected individuals were randomized to one of two groups, intervention (GI) or conventional group (CG).
In the conventional group: 11 patients underwent respiratory therapy and motor for a period of 30 minutes.
Patients in invasive mechanical ventilation for 72 hours. 
Neuromuscular disease; stroke; multiple sclerosis; amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; myasthenia gravis; Guillain Barré; extubated within 48 hours.
There was no decrease in the time on mechanical ventilation during ICU stay, verified by information contained in the medical record at baseline and end of study.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effect of physical therapy in the diaphragm of the elderly on the function of the lungs
Study of the transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic muscle stimulation.
Experimental Group (n = 14): Elderly men who received transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic stimulation to the motor threshold intensity.

Parameters of stimulation:
Male volunteers;
Aged between 67 and 79 years;
Elderly Smokers;
History of pulmonary disease, neuromuscular disorders and postural muscles that affect the respiratory or cardiovascular diseases.
Increased diaphragmatic muscle strength, assessed by the manometer. The manometer is an analog device with operating range of 0 to ± 300 cmH2O, to check the measurements of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP). Expected to find measures considered technically satisfactory maximal inspiration, lasting at least 2 seconds without air leak and values close to each other (> 10%), computing the largest absolute value obtained.
Improvement in lung volume and capacity, as assessed by respirometry, where volunteers remain seated, holding the silicone mask involving the nasal and oral cavities, preventing the escape of air. Expected to find increased tidal volume, minute volume and vital capacity.
Evaluation of maternal supplementation with vitamin E and its influence on breast milk
Evaluation of maternal supplementation with vitamin E in its natural form (ethyl RRR-alpha-tocopherol) or synthetic (ethyl all-rac-alpha-tocopherol) on the levels of alpha-tocopherol in different stages of breast milk
Group 1 (control ) : 30 women with premature delivery ( 
Healthy lactating preterm births; single conceptus without malformation; aged 18-40 years; no history of abortion; without the use of vitamin supplements during pregnancy
Women with term delivery, ie, greater than 37 weeks gestation; that are experiencing conditions such as diseases of the gastrointestinal tract and liver, heart disease, infectious syphilis, HIV positive and neoplasia; multiple conceptus; who used vitamin supplements during pregnancy containing vitamin E.
Outcome found: Increased alpha-tocopherol concentration in breast milk in the supplemented group, in the period up to 7 days. The method used to quantify the tocopherol was chromatographed high efficiency, based on comparison to a standard alpha-tocopherol. The study included 89 women distributed in the control group (n = 51) and supplemented group (n = 38).
Outcome Found: Only colostrum milk in the group supplemented reach the nutritional recommendations by AI 4 mg / day of vitamin E for babies 0-6 months. For assessment of the criteria was adopted that premature child ingests 254 ± 125 mL / day of milk in the first week of life and 552 mL / day of mature milk, with a month of life. Was found in colostrum milk 0h Control Group 3.8 mg / day of alpha-tocopherol and Group Supplemented 3.4 mg / day. In milk 24h in the control group 3.4 mg / day of alpha-tocopherol while in the group supplemented 5.8 mg / day. In the transitional milk the concentration of alpha-tocopherol / day was 2.2 mg / day and 3.4 mg / day for the supplemented group and control group, respectively. In mature milk 2.4 mg / day for the control group and 2.3 mg / day for Supplemented Group.
Comparison of the effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training and Aerobic Training in people on Hemodialysis
Comparison of the effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training and Aerobic Training of the lower limbs in physiological and functional parameters in Hemodialysis patients
Inspiratory muscle training group (IMTG): 12 volunteers will perform 3 sets of 15 breaths with 50% resistance of maximal inspiratory pressure with threshold IMT, for 30 sessions in the first hour of hemodialysis; Aerobic training group (ATG): 12 volunteers will perform exercise in cycle ergometer for 30 minutes, with pedaling cadence of 60 rpm, while maintaining the perceived effort of 3-7 (modified Borg scale), during the first two hours of dialysis, for 30 sessions; Combined training group (CTG); 12 volunteers will perform inspiratory muscle training before aerobic training by 30 sessions, following the protocols described for IMTG and ATG, respectively, in the first two hours of hemosialysis. Control group: In this group, 12 volunteers will not perform exercises for 30 hemodialysis sessions and will have not changes in clinical treatment.  
They will be included 48 patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis for longer three months and weekly frequency of three times a week;  hemodialysis access by arterio-venous fistula.
Systolic blood pressure greater than 180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure greater than 120 mmHg,  ischemic heart disease, recent myocardial infarction (less than 6 months), complex ventricular arrhythmia, aortic stenosis, severe metabolic disease, severe anemia and aortic aneurysm; respiratory diseases, neurological or musculoskeletal that compromises the protocol execution; inability to perform any stage of protocol; absence in three consecutives exercise sessions; changes of clinical treatment during study;
Increased functional capacity, evaluated by the Shuttle Walk Test of 12 stages, held on a flat course 10 meters, delimited by two cones. The walking speed of the volunteers will be determined by a sound stimulus being initiated to 0.5 m / s, with progressions of 0.17 m / s each minute (stages). Functional capacity will represented by the distance covered on the test and will be considered an improvement, increase by more than 15% after the interventions, which are: aerobic training, inspiratory muscle training and combined training (aerobic training and inspiratory muscle training associated).
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
A phase III study for the evaluation of the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals
201959 (FLU D-QIV-017) - A phase III study to assess immunogenicity and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals
Adult group:  60 subjects between 18 and 60 years old  will receive one dose of vaccine against influenza administered intramuscularly

Elderly group:  60 subjects above 60 years old  will receive one dose of vaccine against influenza administered intramuscularly
Male and female subjects aged 18 years or above at the time of vaccination; healthy with well-controlled chronic diseases;  will comply with the requirements of the protocol and give written informed consent. Female subjects of non-childbearing potential. Female subjects of childbearing potential may be enrolled in the study, if the subject has practiced adequate contraception for 30 days prior to vaccination, and has a negative pregnancy test at screening and on the day of vaccination, and has agreed to continue adequate contraception during the entire treatment period and for two months after completion of the vaccination series
Use of any investigational or non-registered product, drug or vaccine, other than the study vaccine during the period starting 30 days before the dose of study vaccine or planned use during the study period; any medical condition that in the judgment of the investigator would make intramuscular injection unsafe; chronic administration, defined as more than 14 consecutive days, of immunosuppressants or other immune-modifying drugs within six months before study start or planned administration during the study; planned administration of a vaccine not foreseen by the study protocol in the period starting 30 days before the study vaccination and during the entire study period; administration of immunoglobulins and/or any blood products within the three months preceding the first dose of study vaccine or planned administration during the study period; administration of an influenza vaccine within the 6 months preceding the study start or planned use of such vaccines during the study period; concurrently participating in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational product; clinically or virologically confirmed influenza infection within the six months preceding the study vaccination; any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition, based on medical history and physical examination; acute disease and/or fever at the time of enrollment; acute or chronic, clinically significant pulmonary, cardiovascular, hepatic or renal functional abnormality, as determined by physical examination or laboratory testing performed at the screening visit; chronic underlying disease not stabilised or clinically serious;history of chronic alcohol consumption and/or drug abuse; history of Guillain-Barré syndrome; history of any reaction or hypersensitivity likely to be exacerbated by any component of the vaccine, including latex; history of severe adverse reaction to a previous influenza vaccination; anaphylaxis following the administration of vaccine(s);  pregnant or breastfeeding female; subject planning to become pregnant or planning to discontinue contraceptive precautions during the study period.
Humoral immune response for each vaccine strain (1) in terms of antibodies in adults 18-60 years and in elderly above 60 years (2). The following aggregate variables will be calculated with confidence interval of 95% (3): Geometric mean titre for antibodies at Days 0 and 21; Seropositivity rate at Days 0 and 21; Seroprotection rate at Days 0 and 21; Seroconversion rate at Day 21; Seroprotection power at Day 21; Mean geometric increase also known as the seroconversion factor at Day 21.   
Occurrence of solicited local and general symptoms in adults 18-60 years and > 60 years of age (1) through diary card/subject report (2): Percentage, intensity and duration of solicited local symptoms during a 4 day follow-up period after vaccination; Percentage, intensity, duration and relationship to vaccination of solicited general symptoms during a 4 day follow-up period after vaccination (3). Occurrence of solicited local and general symptoms in adults 18-60 years and above 60 years of age (1) through diary card/subject report (2): Percentage, intensity and duration of solicited local symptoms during a 4 day follow-up period after vaccination; Percentage, intensity, duration and relationship to vaccination of solicited general symptoms during a 4 day follow-up period after vaccination (3). Occurrence of MAEs and SAEs in adults 18-60 years and above 60 years of age (1) through subject report/medical chart (2):  Percentage, intensity and relationship to vaccination of MAEs and SAEs during the entire study period (3). Humoral immune response for each vaccine strain (1) in terms of HI antibodies, in subjects aged 18-60 years and above 60 years, who have and who have not received an influenza  vaccine during the influenza season in 2014, prior to the 2015 Southern Hemisphere season (2). The following aggregate variables will be calculated by subjects’ influenza vaccination history for previous season in 2014 with confidence intervalo f 95% (3): Geometric mean titre for antibodies at Days 0 and 21; Seropositivity rate at Days 0 and 21; Seroprotection rate on Days 0 and 21;  Seroconversion rate on Day 21; Seroprotection power at Day 21; Mean geometric increase also known as the  seroconversion factor at Day 21.
Low-dose combined oral contraceptives use is associated to lower bone mass in adolescents over a one-year period
Bone mineral density in adolescents using combined oral contraceptives
Experimental Group: 41 healthy adolescents using low dose contraceptives containing 20 µg ethinylestradiol  and 150 µg desogestrel in a period of one year.
Control Group: 26 healthy adolescents not using these contraceptives, no treatment. 
healthy female volunteers; between 12 and 20 years old; who were post menarche and had regular menstrual cycles; attending the Adolescent Medicine Outpatient Clinic at Botucatu University Hospital from the São Paulo State University -UNESP; not using any type of hormonal contraceptive. 
premature or low birth weight; prolonged steroid treatment; with diabetes mellitus, acute or chronic malnutrition, congenital or acquired bone diseases, gastrointestinal malabsorption, history of nephropathy, endocrinopathies; early or late puberty; chronic drug consumption; use of medication known to negatively affect bone metabolism.
Contraceptives users presented low bone mass acquisition in the lumbar spine bone mineral density with variation percentages between initial and final moments (+2.07%). The control group presented variations (+12.16%) over the same period. 
The use of a low COC dose with Ethinylestradiol 20µg/Desogestrel 150µg was associated to lower bone mass acquisition in adolescents during the study period. 
The impact of educational videos to teaching of the Leprosy disease to medical students. 
Educational virtual objects assessment inserted in learning based on team (team-based learning) in leprosy education on undergraduate medical setting


The students will be randomized into two groups: group intervention (n=47) will be exposed to the TBL session with the insertion of two Virtual Human’s videos about Leprosy (“Clinical Manifestations of Leprosy” and “Leprosy Neuropathy”), for 3 hours; and group control  (n=47) to standard TBL session on the same subject, for 3 hours. In the end, the level of knowledge acquisition for the two groups was evaluated by individual (IRAT – primary outcome) and in group (GRAT) multiple choice tests, and a clinical case with short descriptive questions.
94 Healthy volunteers; both genders; age greater than 18 years.
Student who already had take part on dermatologic research
Outcome founded: The average of the individual grades of the students exposed to the videos was 8.05 and the average grade of the students not exposed was 7.18. This difference was statistically significant.
Secondary outcome founded: Average grade of the clinical Cases  The average grade of the clinical cases of students exposed to the videos was 9.22 and the average grade in the unexposed group students was 8.44. This difference was not statistically significant.
Quality of life in patients of high pressure
Quality of life in patients of hypertension arterial systemic
We used the generic SF-36 (The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey) in fifty patients with hypertension in only a moment. Patients included in the study were of both sexes, being 35 females and 15 males.
Having 18 years old or more, being provided with hypertension, making this drug treatment.
Have diseases that can greatly influence the quality of life of these patients.
The scores were found in aspects: physical functioning 52.5, physical aspects 49.5, pain 57.62; general health 63.8 , vitality 61.36; social aspect of 78.99, emotional 67.32 , mental health 68,32. The evaluation was performed using the generic SF-36 (The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey.
Found lower scores in all domains of quality of life related to health, with scores between 61.36 and 78.99. The evaluation was performed using the generic SF-36 (The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey.
Efficacy and safety of corticosteroids use in severe pulmonary inflammation in children
Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial to evaluate the effects and safety of infusion of low-doses of Methilprednisolone in early Acute Lung Injury (ALI) and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) in children
Experimental group: three from six children per hospital, presenting Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome will receive low-doses of methylprednisolone within 72 hours from the diagnosis, 1mg/kg/day, total volume of 24cc, continuous infusion of 1,0cc/h, for 14 days. Total sample of 21 children in the experimental group, three per hospital, in a total of seven hospitals.
Control Group: three from six children per hospital, presenting Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome will receive saline infusion within 72 hours from the diagnosis, total volume of 24cc, continuous infusion of 1,0cc/h, for 14 days. Total sample of 21 children in the control group, three per hospital, in a total of seven hospitals.
Pediatric patients in mechanical ventilation; diagnosis of ALI/ARDS within the first 72 hours based on the current literature criteria; informed consent properly signed; both genders; age range from 29 days to 18 years.

ALI/ARDS with more than 72 hours of diagnosis; failure to obtain written informed consent  to participate in the study; condition requiring 
More than 1-point reduction in Lung Injury Score (LIS) by study day 7 or mechanical ventilation suspension, characterizing pulmonary organ function improvement
Improvement in extra-pulmonary organ function verified by the pediatric multiple organ dysfunction score (P-MODS) by study day 7; systemic inflammatory process reduction verified by the levels of TNF, RCP, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 by study day 7; reduction of the intensive care unit length of stay; more complications associated with the corticosteroids administration verified by the new infections after the enrollment on the study; number of patients with hyperglycemia needing insulin-therapy; pancreatitis; gastrointestinal bleeding; hypernatremia and behavior disturbance.
Effect of neural mobilization on the vertical jump and balance in healthy subjects
Effect of neural mobilization in the lower limbs on the vertical jump and balance in healthy subjects
Group 1: 35 subjects. They will receive in a single session, once the neural mobilization in the lower limbs. Each mobilization lasts an average of 30s. The mobilization will be directed to the femoral nerve, sciatic and tibial. Immediately after application, testing will take place jumping and dynamic balance.
Group 2: 35 subjects. It will be the same participants. It will be the control group, which will receive once muscle stretching in the lower limbs. Each stretching lasts an average of 30s. The stretching will be directed to the musculature of the hip flexors, quadriceps, hamstrings and triceps surae. Immediately after application, the tests will be performed jumping and dynamic balance.
Men and women, aged between 18 and 45 years, that do not have previous neurological or vestibular disorders, musculoskeletal or any change that interferes with or contra-indicate the measurement procedures of this study
Underage individuals and individuals with vestibular disorders, neurological or musculoskeletal.
Increase vertical jump height, measured using a force platform that will provide the time of flight and ground reaction force during the vertical jump. Increase in dynamic equilibrium: evaluated by testing Star Excursion Balance Test, where the leg support individuals need to reach the farthest point possible in three directions. Any observed increase in before-after comparison of the intervention will be considered an improvement.
Increase of muscular power seen by the increase in vertical jump. Improved motor control for better performance at the Star Excursion Balance Test.
Effects of the ultrasound therapy on venous ulcer healing
Effects of ultrasonic waves application on morphometric parameters and metalloproteases gene expression in venous ulcers
Twenty volunteers presenting lower limb venous leg ulcer will be divided in two experimental groups. One of the groups (10 patients) will be effectively treated with therapeutic ultrasound in the frequency of 3MHz, 1.0W/cm2 of power, pulsed in cycles of 20% and duration of 1 minute per cm2 of wound area. The dose will be distributed in 80% at the wound surroundings and 20% at the wound bed. The control group (10 patients with lower limb venous ulcer) will be subjected to placebo application of ultrasonic waves, that is, without effective power of treatment (dose equal to zero). All patients will be subjected to a standard treatment for the ulcer consisting of standard wound care, elastic compression and an exercise protocol. The ultrasound treatment will be done during 5 sessions in alternated days not including weekends. The standard treatment without the use of ultrasound (twice a week) will last for 4 weeks.
Unhealed venous ulcer with at least eight weeks of duration
Ankle-brachial index equal or higher than 0,8
Wound infecction
Exclusion by patient request
Decrease in metalloproteinase (MMP) type 2 and 9 gene expression and/or activity in samples taken from lower limb venous ulcer exsudate. The MMPs expression will be assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction and MMP and MMPs activity assessed by zymography. The biological sample will be collected before the first and after the last treatment using ultrasonic waves.
Quality of life will be assessed by the quality of life questionnaires SF-36 and Venous Insufficiency Epidemiological and Economic Study (VEINES). The indexes of quality of life are expect to improve after the treatment.
Supplementation of different branched chain amino acids in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients: randomized, double-blind, controlled trial
Supplementation of different branched chain amino acids in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients: randomized, double-blind, controlled trial
Intervention group: 21 cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy will receive a supplement consisting of the amino acid isoleucine in a 10g sachet, which will administered 3 times daily (total 30g); 

Control group: 21 cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy will receive a supplement consisting of the amino acid leucine in a 10g sachet, which will be administered 3 times daily (total 30g); 
Literate individuals aged over 18 years; Presence of cirrhosis (defined by liver biopsy or by a combination of clinical criteria: physical examination with signs of liver failure and / or portal hypertension, endoscopic examination with the presence of esophageal or gastric varices, and / or radiological imaging, ultrasound or computed tomography abdominal, with evidence of chronic liver disease and / or portal hypertension); Presence of Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) type C ranging from Minimal Hepatic Encephalopathy (MHE) to grade III.
Fulminant hepatic failure (Hepatic Encephalopathy type A); Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) secondary to porto-systemic shunts without intrinsic liver disease (HE type B); Severe neuropsychiatric disorders; Obstruction or inflammatory bowel disease; Severe renal impairment (serum creatinine greater than twice normal); Shock (septic, hemorrhagic, neurogenic, cardiac, anaphylactic or mixed); Misuse of alcohol or alcoholic hepatitis in the last six weeks; Use of food supplement with Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAA);  HE grade IV; Recent use of lactulose, antibiotics or L-ornithine L-aspartate (If these medications are started less than a week of the initial intake of the suplementation, the patient will be temporarily excluded from the study, however, chronic use will not be considered an exclusion criterion); Patients in treatment of hepatitis C;  Neoplasia; Pregnancy, Lactation and Obesity.
Identify which branched chain amino acid (leucine or isoleucine) is more efficient in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy and nutritional disorders in patients with cirrhosis.
Observe the impact of the supplementation on quality of life according to the results of the questionnaire applied at the beginning and end of treatment.
The effect of Srenght training in patients quality of life in hemodialysis

Strength Training and patient quality of life hemodialysis
Strength training during hemodialysis. Total of 67 patients divided randomized way in experimental and control groups. Experimental group: 34 patients (men and women) with chronic kidney disease undergoing dialysis treatment, perform leg strength training (hip flexion, knee flexion and hip flexion, knee extension with leggings 03-10 kilos, duration of 3 sets of 10 repetitions, rest between sets of 1 minute) during hemodialysis. The control group: 33 patients of both sexes, not carry out training during hemodialysis treatment. The intervention period is 16 weeks, carried out 3 times a week.
Being in clinical treatment; Physical inactivity is at least six months; have release Midica for physical activity.
Be carrying a disease of the muscular system; articulate; bone and connective tissue diagnosed in the initial application in recruitment. have arthropathy; systemic connective tissue diseases; condropatias; heart disease; osteopathies; make use of beta-blocking drugs origin.
Improving patient quality of life with chronic renal failure after sixteen weeks of strength training, from a questionnaire (KDQOL - SF 36) in the pre and post intervention.
Not expected secondary outcomes.
Analysis of the effect of vibration in patients with stroke
Analysis of the effects of low frequency vibration in patients affected by stroke
 Will be selected 40 patients with sequelae of hemiparesis due to stroke, divided into 2 groups: control (10 untreated patients) and intervention (30 patients). In the intervention group will be applied to vibration therapy three times a week for 4 weeks. The application time in the first 2 weeks will be 4 minutes and the second week of 8 minutes with 1 minute rest between each application. The instrument will be used for treatment is a vibrating platform where the patient is placed on top with knee flexed to 30 degree at a frequency of 50Hz and amplitude of 2 mm. After 30 days of application will be a reassessment of the patients
Hemiparesis due to stroke with more than 3 months of injury; 
Age over 30 years; 
Younger than 30 years; 
Acute cerebral vascular accident; 
Improvement in lower limb function assessed using: standard of muscle contraction - performed by electromyography; runtime task of climbing stairs - stair-climbing test, time spent deslocamente from one place to another, test and timed up and walk away covered by a period of time - test 6 minutes.
Improvement in the running speed by using the test of 6 minutes and up and walk test timed.  Improves the speed to go up through the stair climbing test.
Randomized Controlled Trial of the School Prevention Program for drug Unplugged (#Tamojunto) among Brazilian adolescents
Evaluation of the implementation of school prevention program s to drug use for children and adolescents (Randomized controlled trial)
Experimental group: With 6469 participants, the intervention consists of the implementation of #Tamojunto program (guided by a manual)  by the teacher responsible for the classroom.  Teachers will be trained by the Ministry of Health. The goal of *tamojunto program is to implement life skills training to prevent drug use through developing “critical thinking , “decision making” , “problem solving” , “creative thinking” , “effective communication” , “interpersonal skills” , “self-awareness” , “empathy” and “dealing with emotions”. Besides to the life skills training it is expected that the student can evaluate 
Being a student enrolled in grade 8 (old 7th grade) of one of the public schools randomly selected from the list of INEP, in São Paulo, Florianopolis, Fortaleza, Tubarão, São Bernardo do Campo, Brasilia and consent to respond to the pre and post-test questionnaire
Questionnaires without adequate codes; Students with cognitive impairment; Refusal in completing the questionnaire
expected Outcome: 1) To evaluate the use of the year (at least one use in the last 12 months) of the following drugs: alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, inhalants and cocaine - 2) Evaluation by the US-DAP questionnaire self-completion for drug use detection among adolescents - 3) detection of a range of at least 5% in pre and post measurements comparing the experimental and control groups  
No secondary outcomes were found
Dressing with product derived from snake venom to treat wounds in the legs
Fibrin sealant derived from snake venom for the treatment of venous ulcers: non controlled phase I / II to evaluate the safety, efficacy and confirm the lowest dose clinical trial - study selante II
Single group: 40 participants with chronic venous ulcers from Clinic of Chronic Ulcers - Department of Dermatology - Botucatu Medical School  who will receive weekly dressings for 3 months with topical fibrin sealant in sufficient quantity to cover the entire ulcerated area, and then topic fatty acid soaked gauze to cover the same ulcerated area and ending with the bandage of the lower limb with Unna boot.
Sign the term of free and informed consent; patients 18 years of age or older, of both sexes; chronic venous disease with chronic venous ulcers evidenced by one or more of the following signs: hyperpigmentation of the distal third of the lower limb, stasis eczema,  lipodermatosclerosis, varicose veins; to have at least one ulcer whose time evolution is minimum of 6 weeks and a maximum of 5 years; display the sum of the areas of the ulcers of both members between 5 and 60 square centimeters; at least one ulcer whose major area is above 5 square centimeters; do not use the following drugs in the last two weeks prior to screening: venotonics,  pentoxifylline, fibrinolytic drugs; Available to attend once a week for treatment.
Leg ulcers of other etiologies ( causes hematological , neoplastic , infectious , among others) ; use of anticoagulants ; infected ulcers , or associated with erysipelas , cellulitis or lymphangitis; ulcer with critical colonization , ie ,large amount of exudate and / or foul and / or yellowish staining of the wound bed and / or green and / or red opaque odor and / or friable granulation tissue ; necrosis in the ulcer bed ; devitalized background with ulcer covering all your bed; venous ulcers associated with peripheral arterial disease that is characterized when the systolic ankle-brachial index is less than 0.9 and / or absence of distal pulses; being unable or does not wish to remain with compressive treatment of lower limb for seven days; to have a history of allergy to treatment with Unna boot; to have a history of allergy to treatment with essential fatty acid; known or suspected pregnancy;
values coagulation outside the normal range ( Activated partial thromboplastin time more than 1.25 and time and prothrombin activity less than 70% or more than 100%); women of childbearing potential not using contraception.
Assessment of local adverse events: pain through application of Visual Analog Scale  -VAS; itching, maceration of the edge of the ulcer, eczema, local infection, critical colonization, opening of a new ulcer by medical history and physical examination; increasing the ulcer area by employing the technique of planimetry and softwear ImageJ.
Assessment the healing process by decreasing the areas of ulcers,characteristics of the ulcer bed, decreasing the amount of exudation,  employing the technique of planimetry and softwear ImageJ.
Effect of nebulized saline on mucociliary transport
Effect of Nebulisation on the Mucociliary Nasal Transport

The saccharin test is performed by measuring the time elapsed between placement of a particle of sodium saccharin into one of the nostrils and the perception of its taste. 18 patients did the test in two conditions:
First condition: Temperature and humidity controlled environment, named ENV.
Volunteers aged between 18 and 30 years old were selected amongst the Ribeirão Preto School of Medicine undergraduate and post-graduate students for study
Those with smoking habits, cystic fibrosis, sinusitis, rhinitis, ciliary dyskinesia, hypertrophy of lower turbinates, major septal deviation, upper and lower airways infections in the last four weeks prior to study, bronchiectasis, and individuals who underwent surgery in the upper airways were excluded from study. 
It was expected that the nasal mucociliary transport after nebulization with saline would improve. The nasal mucociliary transport was evaluated by the saccharin test provided by the time (minutes) displacement of the particle of saccharine.  Time saccharin test In the situation ENV: ranged from 3.1 to 8.2 minutes, with an average 5.79 minutes In the situation NEB: ranged from 2.0 to 9.8 minutes, with an average 5.56 minutes
Training and Manual Behavior in Premature Infants
Effects of Specific Training on the Ability of Reaching in Preterm Infants
Therapeutic clinical trial randomized controlled parallel. Participate in the trial 16 preterm infants moderate to extreme, healthy, gestational age less than 37 weeks, of both genders, which will be divided equally randomized into two groups: experimental group (EG), which will be submitted to the intra-session training in practice varied serial condition, and Control Group (CG) to be subjected to social interaction. The chronological age of these infants may vary between 3 and 6 months chronological age, depending of the period of acquisition range. The sequence of random distribution of infants is performed by a statistical not involved in the recruitment of these, randomization procedures using simple, balanced of one of two groups (experimental or control) by a computer program. The allocation to the groups of infants will be hidden in opaque envelopes, sealed and sequentially numbered by the statistician who performed the procedures to generate random sequence. Researchers who conduct training open the envelope and apply the training in accordance with the group in which the infant is allocated. The envelope will only be opened if the infant hold at least a movement of reach during the pre-training assessment. Experimental Intervention Group (n = 8) - one session lasting five minutes. Each session will consist of three activities, so that there is no repetition of the same task consecutively (ABC ABC ABC). The physiotherapist should be sitting comfortably with the trunk supported, the legs slightly apart, with hips and knees flexed at about 120 and 50 degrees, respectively. About your femurs should be placed a cushion, and on this, the infant. This will encourage the infant to remain face-to-face with the therapist, with the neck in semiflexion, facilitating alignment between head and trunk, and hands in the midline within your visual field. (A) The researcher holds the object within the visual field of the infant and the infant
Infants born below 37 weeks considered low risk for brain injury, with Apgar Scores of greater than 7, without major pre- and perinatal complications, and at maternal care.
Infants considered high risk, whose medical records report the occurrence of: anoxia, signs of neurological impairment (eg, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy grades I, II and III, intracranial hemorrhage, and neonatal seizures), congenital malformations (eg, anencephaly, spina bifida, acondroplasias, microencephaly), genetic syndromes (eg, Down syndrome and chromosomal deletion), sensory changes (visual and auditory), difficulties cardiorespiratory, orthopedic impairment and / or musculoskeletal,  hyperbilirubinemia. For the selection or non-inclusion of infants in the studies according to the risk factors described above, the medical records will be taken as a reference to obtain such information, as well as prompted the collaboration of neonatologists and pediatricians selection of sites for confirmations and questions to resolve.
Continuous variables of reaching performance: measured as the mean values of kinematics variables of reaching movement (movement duration,straightness index, deceleration time, mean velocity, movement unit) and total frequencies of reaching.
Categorical variables of reaching performance: the frequencies of uni/bimanual movements, hand opening/orientation when the infant touches the object.
Study to evaluate the occurrence of Dengue in areas with higher concentrations of cases in Brazil
An epidemiological surveillance study to evaluate the incidence of Dengue in brazil
According to the protocol, 1800 participants will undergo medical procedures, such as blood sample drawing and medical care, such as medical consult/visits. A blood sample for serology will be collected from all enrolled subjects in each one of the three scheduled visits six months apart from each other and, at least, for all initial and follow up suspected dengue cases, during the study period of an year. Extra blood samples may be collected, IF decided by the physician. For children 
Written and signed informed consent; male or female at least 6 months of age at the time of enrollment; subject and/or subject’s parent(s) who the investigator believes can comply with the requirements of the protocol and Subject who plans, at the time of enrollment, to remain at same residence/study area during the one year study period
Child in care; participation (current or planned) in another epidemiological study or in a clinical trial that would conflict with the current study, based on investigator’s judgement and terminal illness or severe mental incapacity
To estimate the incidence of laboratory-confirmed symptomatic dengue infection (all DENV types)
Estimate the incidence of DENV-type specific laboratory-confirmed and probable symptomatic dengue infection by study site, gender,  age-group, and previous dengue exposure (primary or secondary); estimate the prevalence of previous dengue infection(s) (dengue seroprevalence) at baseline; estimate the incidence of primary inapparent dengue infection and estimate the severity of symptomatic dengue (using the 2009 WHO guidelines).
Effects of dietary guidance in children attending outpatient preventive cardiology: randomized clinical trial
Effects of dietary guidance in children attending outpatient preventive cardiology: randomized clinical trial
Intervention group: 48 patients, weekly group meetings, totaling 10 meetings lasting 1 hour and a half, for 03 months. Individuals will undergo nutritional education group along with his parents to raise awareness of healthy eating. All materials will be used for better understanding of ludic understanding.
Control group: 45 patients, biweekly individual meetings, totaling 6 meetings. Parents also participated, is the conventional treatment with a nutritionist.
Children both genders aged 7-11 years whose parents or caregivers signed an informed consent form, reside in the state of Rio Grande do Sul and having overweight overweight or obese according to the criteria of the World Health Organization.
Children with neurological disorders that interfere with learning, cognitive deficits eg Disorder Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder; contraindications for physical activity group and using drugs that interfere with the body weight or lipid profile, such as statins, ritonavir, furosemide hidrocloritiazida, propranolol, nadolol, prednisolone among others.
Reduction in total cholesterol levels of the subjects underwent intervention, assessed by biochemical tests
Reduction of body mass index of the subjects underwent intervention, assessed by anthropometry
Protection targets to women crack users
Protection targets to women crack users
40 cocaine users and 40 healthy controls, all women will took place in this study. They will pass, each one, for two experimental sessions that will occur after a session for the assessment of inclusion/exclusion criteria. The experimental sessions will be functional magnetic resonance imaging exams with 45 minutes each. In this sessions, participants will do resting-state exams and a task in which they will have to watch movies and pay attention. Before each exam (45 minutes), participants will inalate a dose of nasal spray of synthetic oxytocin 40 UI; or a dose 1 dose of nasal spray containing the same proprieties that Syntocinon, but without the main substance, being this way a placebo condition. The selection of which session participants will use oxytocin or placebo will be randomized.
Eighty volunteers; women; aged between 18 and 40 years; with right hand dominance; and who self-declare drug free in the last 2 weeks (exception accepted for tobacco. One group of 40 healthy participants. One group of 40 inpatient women who are in treatment for crack detoxification; participants should have hospitalized for their own; and she should fill criteria for Cocaine Use Dependence Disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders – IV; or for or Mental and Behavioral Cocaine Related Disorders according to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems-10.
Volunteers who are using psychiatric medications; who are illiteracy; or diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder or Psychotic syndromes. Participants who have been pregnant in the last 6 months; or who has a positive result for drug use in the last 4 days in an urinary test. Participants with intellectual disabilities; history of neurologic disease; claustrophobia; respiratory chronic diseases; deviated septum type III; or history of head injury. Participants with metal prosthesis; tattoos or other artefacts that impossibilitate magnetic resonance exam. Participants with nasal congestion; and with lesions in the nasal mucosa. Healthy control participants who has a mental disorder in course;  crack users who self declare abstinent for more than two months.
Increased prefrontal interhemispheric brain functional connectivity during resting-state (1) measured by Voxel-Mirrored Homotopic Connectivity for interpretation of data from functional magnetic ressonance imaging exam (2) considering 5% of variations between the means for intranasal oxytocin use and intranasal placebo solution use (3).
Lower subjective craving for crack while watching crack cues (1) measured by a visual analogic scale (2) considering 5% of variation in the means under intranasal oxytocin use in comparison to placebo solution use (3).
Neurosensory analysis of tooth sensitivity during at-home dental bleaching
Influence of the cold sensation threshold on the occurrence of dental sensitivity before dental bleaching
It was used the split mouth design in the present study. Twenty five patients were submitted to two types of at-home bleaching products, one in the right maxilar hemi-arch and the other in the left one.
Thus, dental arch impressions were taken using alginate in order to obtain stone molds. In the molds, individual acetate trays were fabricated.
Volunteers with healthy and vital maxillary teeth; no decayed teeth; no visible enamel defects; no orthodontic brackets; overall good systemic health; healthy oral soft tissue; non-smoking; pacients who have never undergone bleaching treatment. 

Direct and indirect restorations in the maxillary anterior region; adverse reaction to peroxide; use of opioids or medications influencing neurosensory response; use of pacemaker; presence of severe dental staining (tetracycline, trauma, fluorosis, and unknown etiology); neurological diseases; chronic or acute diseases; dentine exposure.

The actually observed outcome was the intensity of tooth sensitivity (in degrees Celsius) recorded before, 7 days, 14 days and 21 days after the beginning of the bleaching treatments. The method used was the Quantitative Sensory Testing, which by means of a descending cold temperature transmitter positioned on the buccal surface of the tooth, provided accurate cold temperature detection by the patient. In the group bleached using 10% carbamide peroxide with potassium oxalate (desensitizing) it was observed an increase in the intensity of tooth sensitivity 7 days (16.69) 14 days (16.73) and 21 days (16.07) after the treatment, when compared with the initial values ??(11.44). In the group bleached using 10% carbamide peroxide without the addition of desensitizing, there was also an increase in the intensity of tooth sensitivity 7 days (15.77) 14 days (16.56) and 21 days (15.92) after the treatment, when compared to baseline (11.31). Thus, among the initial values ??of both groups and the values ??of times 7, 14 and 21 days there was no statistically significant difference (p <0.05), showing that the desensitizing product was not effective in reducing the intensity of tooth sensitivity.
No secondary outcomes were observed.
Intervention mental health needs in the community
Identification of needs and proposed intervention in mental health problems and use of psychoactive drugs in user population of the Family Health Program (PSF)in Ribeirão Preto / SP
One experimental group of healthy participants: one with 10 alcohol users with harmful or dependent pattern (verified by the instrument AUDIT- tool that tracks alcohol abuse) that will receive four sessions of brief interventions and another with families of alcohol users.
During the brief intervention sessions with alcohol users will be addressed at each meeting the following subjects: First meeting: Identification of the routine consumption of alcohol by discussing the daily alcohol consumption map; Second meeting: Exploration of the pros and cons, according to user perception and situations related to alcohol use (parties, meetings with friends, work); Third meeting: Map Reading consumption and placement of the users of their ability to effect change and questioning of planning goals for change for the next week; Fourth meeting: Map Reading consumption in recent weeks and encouraging reflection on the ability to change. Still held the feedback of the researcher to the participant. At this meeting the feedback and reflection on changes are undertaken to bring the problem of drinking on the level of other problems and health habits condition controllable and leave the harvest of morality. Note that the map of alcohol consumption is a weekly map where users will reports the weekly consumption (quantity and what drank).
23 Volunteers of both genders; not hospitalized during the operation; 18+; alcohol users in harmful pattern observed after application of the AUDIT instrument. For the relatives of users, plus the need of not harmful use of alcohol.
Hospitalized volunteers for data collection; who are undergoing treatment for alcohol; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study; children under 18 years.
It is expected that with the interventions in alcohol users they have lower standards of alcohol consumption that will be evidenced by a decrease in the AUDIT score instrument. It is also expected that interventions with families provides decrease in consumption of the users, although based on the scientific literature there is a greater chance of decrease when it intervenes directly on the server. As outcome measures will be used to decrease the score of the AUDIT instrument, which will be used changes in the score of the instrument as base to verify the effectiveness of interventions. It should be noted that the decrease in the AUDIT instrument score to be considered will decrease detection of, for example, a usage pattern of 15 to 14.
Secondary outcomes are not measured.
Clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the laser to control the pain caused by orthodontic treatment
Evaluation of low level laser terapy(LLLT) for the treatment of pain associated with positioning elastomeric orthodontic interdental separators
60 orthodontic patients were randomly assigned to two groups of 30 individuals per group (ages 12-25 years with an average of 17.1 for group A; ages 12-26 years with an average of 17.9 for group B). The patients received elastomeric separators on the mesial and distal surfaces of one of the lower first molars, and immediately after insertion of the separators, the volunteers received irradiation as randomly indicated. In addition to laser emission, the device was capable of emitting placebo light, without either the operator or the patient being aware of the type of emission (laser or placebo light). The experimental group received irradiation with LLLT, from an aluminum gallium arsenide diode, consisting of application of a single spot in the region of the radicular apex at a dose of 2 J/cm2 and application along the radicular axis of the buccal surface with three spots of 1 J/cm2 (wavelength 830 nm; infrared). The control group received irradiation with the placebo light, as a single spot application in the region of the radicular apex and as three spots along the radicular axis, for the vestibular side. For both groups, a signal was sounded at the start and end of each spot application. All the patients received a questionnaire to be filled out at home describing their levels of pain over the next five days, in situations of both a relaxed and an occluded mouth.Pain intensity was reported by patients 2, 6 and 24 hours and 3 and 5 days after placement of orthodontic separators.
Chronological age greater than 12 years; 
Presence of erupted permanent first and second lower molars; Presence of erupted first and second premolars; 
Patients using antibiotics or analgesics; 
Pregnant or breastfeeding women; 
The volunteers received a questionnaire asking about pain intensity, to be defined on a visual analogue scale, which they filled out during the days of the week subsequent to the procedure. The patients marked the pain intensity in situations with a relaxed mouth (spontaneous pain) and upon biting only with the posterior teeth (in occlusion). The intensity of pain was reported by the patients 2, 6 and 24 hours and 3 and 5 days after orthodontic separator placement. 
None
Effects of training in the pool in balance in elderly individuals
Hydrotherapy in balance in elderly individuals
Experimental group: 10 sedentary elderly, undergoing a protocol of 24 45-minute-sessions, twice a week, for a period of three months. The exercise protocol consisted of warm-up exercises; stretching; kinesiotherapy focused on static and dynamic balance; and relaxation. The exercises were done using tools such as trampoline, balance disc, step, ball, bats and floats (noodles) and the water depth level varied according to the activities.
Elderly individuals (between 60 and 90 years) from both sexes,  sedentary, independents in the gait and daily activities.
Show dysfunction in the neurological and cardiovascular systems, cognitive alterations, diagnosis of vertigo, hearing problems or urinary infection.
Improves postural balance of older after 24 intervention sessions, evaluated through the platform Balance System (reduction of at least 0.2 in radians of global, medial-lateral and anterior-posterior angular oscillation of the individual’s center of gravity),the Berg Balance System (significant increase in the score obtained) and the Timed Up & Go Test (significant reduction of time for the test). 
Improves dynamic postural balance of elderly individuals after 12 sessions, evaluated through the Berg Balance System (significant increase in the score obtained) and the Timed Up & Go Test (significant reduction of time for the test).
Effects of Pilates in patients with cystic fibrosis
Analysis of the effects of pilates method associated with respiratory physiotherapy in patients with cystic fibrosis
Pilates (mat and equipment) the experimental group was 19 participants (n = 19). The activities were practiced 1x a week, lasting 60 minutes (morning or afternoon, as the convenience of the participant). The program of activities presented: breathing exercises, postural, abdominal, for the trunk, upper limbs (UL) and lower (LL). The movements were chosen according to the postural and musculoskeletal condition of the patient to gradually increase the level of difficulty.
Patients between 7 and 20 months of age, both genders, diagnosed with Cystic Fibrosis; presenting forced expiratory volume in one minute (FEV1) above 30% of predicted; with availability to attend the sessions of care.
Patients enrolled in a program of physical activity; presenting Cor Pulmonale severe; presenting twenty-five percent or more absences in the attendance sessions. 
The study showed that the application  of Pilates was effective in respiratory muscle strength gain; physical tolerance was improved in the group  male by step test 3 minutes; there were no differences in the evaluation of pulmonary function in the total group of patients; observed gain in height z-score among girls. As for quality of life,  questionnaire of quality of life in cystic fibrosis of the parents / caregivers of children 6 to 13 years, there have been improvements in  field of respiratory condition and questionnaire relating to patients 14 years or  showed more improvements in the physical condition.
unrealized
The Use of Topiramate in the Crack Addiction
The Use of Topiramate in the Crack Addiction
This is a double blind study. Subjects: We wil select individuals with crack cocaine addiction diagnosis, males, and with minimum age of 18 years, and maximum age 50 years old, and capable of consenting. The intervention will be held for 12 weeks. Study groups: 20 individuals who make use of topiramate and 20 individuals who make use of placebo. Randomization: The sample will be randomized by permuted block technique. The total sample will have 40 participants. Patients will be randomly selected from the Psychosocial Care Center of Palmas, Brazil. Randomization will be performed according to a computer generated random list by the method exchanged in blocks. The first five participants will be allocated in the group who use the medication topiramate. The next five in grup that use placebo. Following five in the second group topiramate and so on until the total number of 40 individuals. Medications that will be used: 25 to 200 mg of topiramate (increased at doses every 7 days 25mg) for 12 weeks. Placebo for 12 weeks single capsule. Urine test to confirm the negative use of the drug: Be quantified for each group (arm) the number of individuals testing negative urine after 12 weeks of intervention. The urine test for cocaine is an immunoassay based on the competitive binding between the antibody drug conjugate immobilized on the membrane and the drug or its metabolites which may be present in the urine sample. The test strip has immobilized drug conjugate in the area of test and antibodies conjugated to gold colloidal conjugate to the membrane. During the examination, a urine sample migrates by capillary action. The benzoylecgonine, if the sample Urine below 300 ng / ml did not saturate the binding sites of antibodies conjugated to gold in the test strip. Antibodies conjugated to gold shall captured by drug conjugate fixed and a line appears red in the test area. She did not develop in the test that the level of benzoylecgonine is above 300 ng/ml saturating all of the binding sites antibodies. Thus, a urine sample positive not form a red line in the test area because of competition drug, whereas a negative result the urine sample make a line in test area because of the absence of competition drug. Regardless of the presence of benzoylecgonine, a red line control area will always appear. The presence of this line serves as verifying sufficient volume sample stream as appropriate, and control for the reagents. Therefore, the presence of two test lines will be considered negative.
Exclusively dependence of crack cocaine. Male gender. Aged between 18-50 years.
Neurological diseases and serious mental disorder. Volunteers already under use of drug therapy for addictions to the crack cocaine. Of multiple drugs users, substance dependents addition to the crack cocaine.
It is expected that 70% of the group that is free of the use topiramate use of crack after 12 weeks of therapy. It is expected that 20% of the placebo group is free of drug after 12 weeks of therapy. This is to be used as a method to measure the urine test for cocaine. It wil be cataloged the number of such subject result in each group (or arm).
It is expected that the group that makes use of topiramate few side effects present in the same proportion as the use placebo group. This will be evaluated weekly side effects: Will be checked through the patient's account in diary and interview with their relatives the presence of side effects (each week for 12 weeks) with the use of medications in each week, even for the placebo group. Will be cataloged any side effects reported by the patient.
Study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TAVR device.
The TAVR feasibility Study_a pilot non-randomised single-arm clinical study to evaluate the feasibility and safety of the valve medical TAVR product in patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis
30 patients will be submitted to Transcatheter Valve Aortic Replacement.

Patient data will be followed at 30 days, 6 months, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years post-implant. 
Age 
Congenital unicuspid or bicuspid valve, or noncalcified aortic valve; Mixed aortic valve disease (aortic stenosis and aortic regurgitation with predominant aortic regurgitation 
Device success:  Successful placement of a single device within the aortic annulus and; Acceptable hemodynamic performance (< 20 mmHg mean AV gradient or < 3.0 m/s peak velocity and < moderate-severe para-valvular AR assessed by echocardiography before discharge). Procedure safety:  The composite of any death or disabling stroke at 30 days post-procedure.
Hemodynamic valve performance: Mean pressure gradient, peak velocity, aortic valve area (and index), and aortic regurgitation assessed by echocardiography pre-discharge at 30 days, 6 months, 1 year and annually for 5 years.
Lower third molar removal with 2% articaine.
Evaluation of the anesthetic efficacy and
hemodynamic effects in the use of 2% and
Group I: 50 patients, after randomization of the local anesthetic solution, will undergo unilateral lower third molar extraction with 2% or 4% articaine (with 1:200,000 epinephrine), in the dose of 54 mg or 108 mg, respectively (one and a half cartridge), in a double-blind manner.
Group II: One to two months after the first
Precise indication of removal of the two
lower third molars in similar positions in the same volunteer, as observed on panoramic radiograph;
Presence of systemic diseases;
Presence of local inflammation and/or
For each surgical procedure the following parameters will be assessed: Total volume of anesthetic solution used during the surgery (in mL). Onset of anesthetic agent action (latency, in minutes), as determined by the loss of sensibility of the inferior lip, the corresponding half of the tongue, and the mucosa as reported by the patient. Quality of the anesthesia provided by the local anesthetic during the surgery and evaluated by the surgeon, according to a modification of the method described by Sisk (1986), based on a 3-point category rating scale: 1) no discomfort reported by the patient during the surgery; 2) any discomfort reported by patient during the surgery, without the need for additional anesthesia; and 3) any discomfort reported by patient during the surgery, with the need of additional anesthesia. Difficulty of the surgery according to the surgical trauma, rated by the surgeon at the completion of each extraction, according to a 3-point category rating scale: 1: easy; 2: normal; 3: complicated. Duration of the surgery (in minutes), corresponding to the period between the first incision and the final suture. Duration of postoperative analgesia (in minutes), as determined by the difference between the time at the end of the surgery and that at ingestion of the first piroxicam capsule for pain relief, recorded by the patient in a specific chart that will be provided. Duration of postoperative anesthesia (in minutes), represented by the lack of sensibility of the mucosa, tongue, and inferior lip after the surgery. Patients will record the moment that the anesthetic had worn off in a specific chart that will be provided. Intraoperative bleeding, rated by the surgeon according to a 3-point category rating scale (1: minimal bleeding; 2: normal bleeding; 3: excessive bleeding) (Sisk, 1986), immediately after the following steps: injection of the first cartridge of articaine, tissue incision, flap reflection, osteotomy, tooth sectioning, extraction, cleaning of the surgical place and stitches. Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure; heart rate; and oxygen saturation, measured before the surgery and immediately after the steps described in item 8. All of the measurements will be automated and noninvasive, performed with a device for monitoring hemodynamic parameters (DX2010; Dixtal Biomédica Ind e Com Ltda, Marília/SP, Brazil) according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Colchicine to reduce arrhythmia in the postoperative period of cardiac surgery 
Colchicine for reduction of Atrial Fibrillation after coronary artery bypass - randomized study
Control group: 69 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery remained untreated. Experimental group: 71 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery were treated with colchicine prescribed at a dose of 1 mg orally twice daily during the preoperative period (started 24 hours before surgery), followed by 0.5 mg orally or nasogastric tube twice daily until hospital discharge. Patients who were admitted only 12 hours before the surgical procedure, was administered colchicine 1 mg orally in a single dose the night before surgery. Patients in the control and experimental group were chosen in randomized order.
Patients were recruited willing and able to provide informed consent and in accordance with the study procedures. All aged greater than or equal to 18 years; indication for elective coronary artery bypass grafting; sinus rhythm on the day preceding surgery. The mean age was 60.3 ± 8.1 years in the control group and 61.5 ± 10.3 years in the colchicine group (p = 0.44), 45 participants were female and 95 male. The sample size was 140 patients 
Exclusion criteria were: contraindication for use of study medication; atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter previously diagnosed; need for associated valve surgery; severe liver disease (transaminases above 1.5 times normal); renal failure (creatinine
The patients in the colchicine group showed no reduction in the incidence of atrial fibrillation compared to the control group (13.04% versus 7.04%, control and colchicine, respectively; p = 0.271)
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Implementation of an educational activity in pregnant women on healthy eating
Effect of an educational intervention in pregnancy to healthy eating with regional food
 Control group : 94 low-risk women, performed prenatal routine consultation in the Family Health Units . Intervention group : 91 low-risk women , delivery and presentation of educational booklet on healthy eating in pregnancy with regional foods , unique and personal intervention with an average duration of 20 minutes in private . The intervention happened before the antenatal routine . EBIA - Brazilian Food Insecurity Scale and the investigation KAP (Knowledge , Attitude and Practice) : two instruments in the pre - test were used. Both instruments were applied prior to prenatal care in both the control group and the intervention group . Was used for post - test survey KAP (Knowledge , Attitude and Practice) in seventh and thirtieth day of prenatal care in the control group and the intervention group in the seventh and thirtieth day of educational intervention . The collection in the post-test was given by telephone . The allocation of the women participating in the study were randomly according to the Family Health Units .
Pregnant volunteers ente 18- 42 years, be performing prenatal consultation at low risk in the Health Unit Family and owning landline or cell phone.
Gestation above 36 weeks of pregnancy, Gestational Diabetes Mellitus, Gestational Hypertension, pregnancy termination and the difficulty to understand the questions and the questionnaire or educational intervention.
Statistical significance and the increase of the appropriate level of knowledge, attitude and practice on regional foods  to the seventh and thirtieth day of educational intervention compared with the control group.
It was observed that pregnant women in the intervention group and the control group consumed more frequently the bean type. And pregnant women had a higher prevalence for food security.
Analysis of Two Physical Exercise Trainings in Elderly Over 80 Years
Analysis and Comparison of Two Physical Exercise Trainings and Their Detraining in Oldest Old
Volunteers are divided randomly into three groups (TM, TR, CO), with 22 people at each. The TM Group (Multicomponent Training) will consist of individuals subjected to a multicomponent exercise program, consisting of: 5 minute warm up on a cycle ergometer, 20 minutes of aerobic exercise on a cycle ergometer, 15-20 minutes of strength exercises (arms, abdomen, squat and ankle), with the use of dumbbells, ankle weights or own gravity to load, 10 minutes of coordination, agility and balance exercises and 5 minute of cool-down, involving stretching of the major muscle groups, breathing exercises and relaxation. The Group TR (Resistance Training) will be subjected to a strength training using weight machines adapted for elderly (Leg Press, Calf, Lumbar Extension, Abdominal, Chest Press and Barbell Row). The protocol follows three sets of 10 to 12 maximal repetitions, moderate speed (two seconds for the shortening phase and three seconds for the elongation phase) and one minute for rest interval between sets. The CO group (Control) constitute individuals not participating in exercise protocols. The training groups TR and TM will last 16 weeks, with a frequency of three times a week, for 50-55 minutes per session. There will be a detraining phase lasting six weeks. In detraining phase, the volunteers will not perform the trainings and they will be instructed to perform their usual activities, without any specific physical restriction. 
Inclusion criteria are age between 80 and 95 years old, live in community, sedentary lifestyle and ability to walk without help from another person with/without aid walking at least 500 meters.
Exclusion criteria are any cardiovascular or infectious comorbity described in the absolut contraindications list of Physical Activity Readiness Medical Examination (2002) (acute infectious disease, dissecting aneurism of aorta, severe aortic stenosis, congestive heart failure, unstable angina, acute myocardical infarction, acute myocarditis, pulmonary or acute systemic embolism, thrombophlebitis, ventricular tachycardia and other dangerous arrhythmias). Relative contraindications of cognitive, neurological and/or musculoskeletal comorbidities which make participation in protocols impossible. Score in mini-state examination mental below the cutoff score designated by education level.
Cognition evaluated by Montreal Cognitive Assessment after 16 weeks of training and 6 weeks of detraining.
Depression assessed by abbreviated Geriatric Depression Scale after 16 weeks of training and 6 weeks of detraining
Physical performance in older adults after exercise program
A proposal for intervention through exercise for the elderly: implications for physical fitness and functional hability
There will be a physical exercise program for a period of 16 weeks duration. The sessions will be held twice a week and will last approximately 50 minutes. All sessions will consist of a warm-up period followed by stretching (± 10 minutes), walking, dance and strength exercises for 30 minutes and a cooling activity (cool-down) by stretching during 10 minutes.
 The population studied is composed of 45 elderly patrons of the Community Center Luiza Tavora.
People who belong to the group of elderly Community Center Luiza Tavora, aged 60 years or over, physically independent, of both genders and voluntarily consent to participate
Failure to understand instructions, due to some cognitive problem, the dependence on a wheelchair, crutches or apparatus to walk or need help to remain standing; paralysis in one end of the arms or legs, uncontrolled high blood pressure (
Before and after physical training program will be evaluated through the fitness evaluation of muscle strength (chair stand tests and elbow flexion), static balance test (one foot), aerobic (stationary gait test), flexibility (sit and reach test). In addition to functional capacity evaluation through tests of "putting on socks" and "to sit, stand up from his chair and moving around the house."
Before and after physical training program will be assessed blood pressure levels at rest (auscultation), the body mass index (BMI) and blood glucose levels (blood glucose meter for measurement of capillary blood glucose).
Diagnostic study of Dengue in Emergency Care
Pragmatic Diagnostic Trial  of Cinical-Laboratory Algorithm for Dengue in Emergency Care Units in Rio de Janeiro
Different algorithms clinical diagnosis of dengue will be compared in a outpatient unit. Control Group ( clinical algorithm proposed by WHO 2009): 150 subjects will undergo the standard protocol for the diagnosis of dengue consisting of at least two of seven signs and symptoms (fever, myalgia, asthenia, headache, retrorbitrária pain, arthralgia, rash) and Intervention Group: 150 individuals will be subjected to the experimental protocol for the diagnosis of dengue, which consists of (lymphadenopathy, leukocyte count below 6000/mm3, rash, thrombocytopenia, ocular congestion. Both groups will be subjected to rapid immunochromatographic dengue dengue NS1 (Bio-Easy)
Patients of both genders over 18 years assisted in Emergency Care Units in Rio de Janeiro, with fever for up to 3 days without other infectious etiology.
pediatric patients and those with other infectious etiology.
Reliability of each clinical prediction rule measured by kappa values ??interpreted according to Landis and Koch, 1977.
Need to review clinical case defined as at least a return to emergency unit
Sugammadex in different weights for motor block antagonism of bariatric surgery - clinical trial
Sugammadex in ideal weight versus weight for reversal of neuromuscular blockade in surgery for treatment of morbid obesity - double blind randomized clinical trial
A prospectively double blind randomized clinical trial was done with sixty adults exhibiting BMI more than 40 Kg.m-2, scheduled for laparoscopic bariatric surgery. Subjects were randomly assigned to three groups, with 20 participants in each group, according to the body weight parameter used to calculate the dose of sugammadex applied at the end of the procedure for reversal of the neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium bromide in continuous infusion: ideal body weight (IBW), IBW plus 20% of excess weight (20% corrected body weight — CBW20) or IBW plus 40% of excess weight (40% corrected body weight — CBW40). Accelerometry train-of-four stimulation (TOF) was used to monitor the depth of the neuromuscular block. At the end of the surgery, after spontaneous recovery of the second response of the train-of-four sequence (T2), a intravenous single bolus-dose of sugammadex equal to 2mg.Kg-1 was administered according to the the body weight parameter previous assigned to each particular patient. The primary endpoint was the neuromuscular block reversal time, defined as the time in seconds until a TOF ratio more than  0.9.  The second endpoint were the occurrence of postoperative residual curarization in the recovery room. 
Both genders, age between 18 and 65. BMI greater than or equal to 40 kg m -2, only included after signing the written informed consent

known neuromuscular diseases (eg Miastenis Gravis ) Use of drugs that interfere with the transmission neuromuscularAlergia to some of the drugs used in the study renal failure
Complete reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex . After completion of the last suture line in the abdominal wall and recovery from the second TOF response (T2), the blockade was reversed using a dose of 2 mg.Kg-1 sugammadex, based on three different body weight calculations — ideal, 20% corrected and 40% corrected — according to group. Blockade reversal was conducted by a research assistant aware of which group the participant was assigned. He prepared a syringe with the dose of sugammadex, according to the weight parameter established for that particular group. The syringe was further filled up with 0.9% physiological saline to a total volume of 10 ml, in such a way that the main researcher was unaware of the dose being administered and, hence, of the group to which the patient had been assigned. After initiation of injection of sugammadex, the neuromuscular functioning monitor continually measured TOF every 12 seconds. The time taken to reverse the blockade was measured from the beginning of injection using a digital stop watch and the TOF-Watch® SX program. Full neuromuscular reversal was defined as a TOF rate equal to or greater than 0.9 on three consecutive measurements. The reversal time as recorded as the first of these three measurements. There was no statistically significant difference between the groups for neuromuscular blockade reversal time  
Occurrence of residual curarization in the post-anesthesia recovery room. After awakening from anesthesia, tracheal extubation and ensuring adequate conditions for transfer from the operating theater, each patient was referred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), where they remained for at least two hours and were evaluated for appearance and need for treatment of clinical signs of muscular weakness and other routine procedures of such units. Clinical tests were carried out on leaving the operating theater, every 20 minutes at PACU and immediately prior to being moved from PACU to the ward, searching the patient's ability to pass from the surgical bed to the transport with little or no help, adequacy of oxigenation, respiratory pattern, ability to swallow saliva and clarity of vision. No differences were observed between the groups in terms of frequency of postoperative residual curarization
Use of misoprostol before hyteroscopy exam to evaluate intrauterine in postmenopausal women.
Use of misoprostol prior to hysteroscopy in postmenopausal women: a randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trial.
Group: 91 postmenopausal women use vaginal 1 tablet of misoprostol 200mg 8 hours before hysteroscopy. Control group: 91 postmenopausal women use 1 tablet placebo 8 hours before hysteroscopy. Randomized clinical trial placebo, double-blind
182 Menopausal women with minimum age of 50 and maximum of 80 referred for endometrial assessment by hysteroscopy.
Women with lower genital tract infection.
Women who have had intrauterine diseases that were previously treated by endoscopy.
EXPECTED OUTCOME: Lower pain during the procedure, the clamping of the cervix and at the time of biopsy will evaluete by visual pain score that will show lower values in the misoprostol group.
EXPECTED OUTCOME: Less cost-effective with the use of misoprostol in hysteroscopy that will be evaluated by pharmacoeconomic study to assess how misoprostol reduce the number of hysteroscopy under anesthesia.
Effect of strength training in the vascular function of hypertensive elderly
Effect of strength training in the vasodilatory response of hypertensive elderly: related mechanisms

Intervention group: 13 sedentary elderly. Control group: 12 sedentary elderly. Elderly people in the intervention group participated in a strength training program that lasted ten weeks. The training sessions occurred on a weekly frequency of three times. The control group remained the ten weeks without practice exercise.
Aged between 65 and 75 years; have not committed any type of regular exercise (more than 2 days per week) over a period of 6 months prior to study entry; have mild essential hypertension (stage I).
Have history or evidence of hematologic disease; peripheral vascular disease; stroke; obesity; diabetes.
We found that forearm blood flow increased after 10 weeks of strength training, verified by venous occlusion plethysmography, from checking a variation of the 1.2 ml.min.100ml at measurements in the pre and post intervention.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Changes in muscle strength in elderly women after Kabat based training
Analysis of change in muscle conditioning before and after Kabat Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation based training in a elderly population
Five subjects were randomized to each arm. The control group subjects were evaluated by measuring muscle strength by dynamometer analog during contraction 2 times within 5 weeks. The experimental group performed similar test, with the addition of training based on Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation during 5 weeks, 3 times per week in sessions of 50 minutes duration. The evaluator muscle strength was blind to the distribution of subjects.
Women, physically active, aged between 60 and 70 years, healthy, no history of surgery or chronic pathologies such as systemic arterial hypertension and diabetes.
Suffering from chronic diseases of any kind; history of surgery; sedentary, they do not agree with the terms of the research.
It is expected that the experimental group has muscle strength gains than the control group after the trial period, measured by analog dynamometer before and after the intervention period, compared to the control group. 
Improving muscular strength by Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation
Clinical and Radiographic Evaluations of Restorations in Dentin Surface of Molars Deciduous
Clinical and Radiographic Evaluation of Minimally Invasive Procedures in Superficial Dentin of Primary Molars
Through the combination of visual and radiographic examinations clinical, we selected 49 patients (both gender) from 4 to 9 years of age with at least one carious lesion involving only the occlusal surface of molars, upper or less, active nature, with cavitation of at most 2 millimeters (mm) in diameter, and radiographically limited to the outer half of dentin. At this time, observing the criterion of randomization, from a random table, it was revealed the type of caries removal would be done, if total or partial. Total removal of decayed tissue - 24 teeth - (control group) carious dentin was removed with a round bur low speed, with or without the help of digger dentin. Partial removal of carious tissue - 25 teeth - (test group) was used only a digger dentin number 17 in an attempt to remove the surface carious tissue and pulpal side walls. The next step: Wash the cavity with dry sterile cotton balls and gentle air, application, according to the manufacturer
4 to 9 years of age; with at least one carious lesion involving only the occlusal surfaces of primary molars upper or lower; active lesion; cavitation of at most 2 millimeters (mm) in diameter; radiographically limited if the outer half of dentin;
systemic disease; under 4 years or more than 9; inactive caries lesion; caries lesion involving other surface beyond the occlusal; lesions in the inner half of dentin;
In total, 35 teeth (19 that underwent TCR and 16 that underwent PCR) were followed up at year 2. At year 2, the success rates for each group were 89,47% and 93,75% for TCR and PCR, respectively (p > 0.05). 
The cause of failure in the PCR group was a secondary caries lesion (1 teeth). In the TCR group, the causes of failure included restoration fracture (1 teeth) and increased radiolucency under the restorative material, suggesting progression of carious lesions (1 teeth). 
Dynamic equilibrium of the lumbar and pelvis for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence in women
Dynamic stabilization lumbopelvic for treatment of urinary incontinence in womem
In the experimental group, comprising 35 women, training to correctly perform the movement guide the intervention for dynamic lumbopelvic stabilization. The movements used in the evaluation now will explain the therapeutic strategy and will be repeated until you reach the correct biomechanical pattern. It is estimated that the number of repetitions is approximately 8 to 10 movements per year. The sessions will take place individually twice a week for six weeks, totaling 12 sessions lasting approximately 30 minutes each. In the control group, consisting of 35 women in the experimental group (35 women)the patients will be instructed to hold each session daily home exercises: a) 10 contractions maintained for 5 seconds with equal rest time between them; b) 20 contractions maintained for 2 seconds with equal rest time between them; c) 20 contractions maintained for 1 second with equal rest time between them; d) 5 contractions maintained for 10 seconds with equal rest time between them; e) 5 repetitions of strong contractions associated with cough with 1 minute intervals between each contraction and will have lasting approximately 15 minutes. All exercises should be done in the supine position with abduction and flexion of the hip joints, knees flexed and feet flat, sitting with knees flexed at 90 degrees, feet on the floor and spine erect without support while standing with bipedal support position.
literate women aged greater than or equal to 18 years with reports of efforts to urinary losses and sexually active
Possessing dystopias grades III and IV or use of anticholinergic drugs, pregnant women, women in treatment for urinary incontinence, pelvic diaphragm dysfunction or changes the alignment of the spine
Outcome found: reduction of urinary losses similar groups in post treatment. However, only the experimental group this improvement remained in the evaluation 90 days after intervention.
Outcome found: improved quality of life, particularly the experimental group, which remained in the evaluation 90 days after treatment. There was no statistical significance for sexual function in either group.
Effects of running technique modification
Effects of Running Technique Modification on lower limb kinematics and muscle activation in runners with and without Patellofemoral Pain
Intervention group: 30 runners with patellofemoral pain that will receive training in three different racing techniques; these will be divided into 3 subgroups (10 runners train the technical one - race with landing initiated in the forefoot, 10 runners will train the technical 2 - Race with the highest number of steps, 10 runners will train technical 3 - race with trunk flexion), the training will be performed on a treadmill, supervised and consists of 8 sessions (4 sessions / week for 2 weeks). Control group: 30 healthy runners without treatment.
Rearfoot strikers, familiar with treadmillrunning and run a minimum of 20 km/wk at least 3 months prior to study enrollment
All must have previous anterior or retropatellar pain in at least three of these activities: up/down stairs, squatting, running, kneeling, jumping and after seated for long periods; insidious onset of symptoms unrelated to traumatic incident and persistent for at least three months during the running activity; presence of pain after patellar compression and usual pain in the last week of at least 3 cm on the visual analog scale of 10 cm.
Signs or symptoms of: meniscal or intra-articular pathology; previous knee joint ligament injuries; ligamentous laxity; sign of patellar apprehension; Osgood-Schlatter or Sinding-Larsen-Johansson syndrome; lumbar spine,  hip or ankle pain; prior patellar dislocation; evidence of knee joint effusion; lower limb surgery; cardiovascular or neurological  diseases.
Kinematics: lower limb and trunk joint angles assessment. Electromyography: evaluation of the electrical activity of the lower limb muscles through a electromyography and surface electrodes. Plantar Pressure Distribution Detection system: landing pattern evaluation during the running. The data will be obtained before, immediately after the modification of the technique and after 2 weeks of training in the technique. It is expected that the change in the immediate running technique improve the biomechanics of the lower limb during the running, contributing to a reduction in the activity of injury.
Visual Analogue Scale: Graduate in 10 cm, validated and specific scale for pain assessment and comfort. Lower Extremity Functional questionnaires and Kujala: validated and translated, specific evaluation questionnaires limitation or loss of function. The data will be obtained before, immediately after the modification of the technique and after 2 weeks of training in the technique.
Effects of inspiratory muscle training in patients with asthma
Effects of inspiratory muscle training in patients with asthma
Inspiratory muscle training in the group of asthmatic subjects (n = 40) and healthy subjects (n = 40) will be held. Prior and posterior to training evaluations will be conducted. The group of adult asthmatic patients as well as healthy, were randomized into two other groups: control group (n=20) and training group (n=20). The training will be held for six weeks, 30 inspiratory efforts twice a day, five days a week, with loads of 50% and 15% of maximal inspiratory pressure in the training and control groups, respectively.
Asthmatic adults: confirmed diagnosis of asthma, based on the criteria of the Global Initiative for Asthma, 2012; controlled asthma; aged between 18 and 60 years; absence of prior lung disease cystic fibrosis kind, bronchiectasis, tuberculosis and pneumonia. Healthy adults: Age between 18 and 60 years; absence of prior asthma-like lung disease, cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis, tuberculosis and pneumonia; pulmonary function and respiratory muscle strength of normal.

Appearance of some lung during the training period; inability to perform the protocol established; solicitaçãoo to exit the study;  accession training protocol smaller than 80%; overweight.
100% increase in electromyographic activity of the inspiratory muscles ( sternocleidomastoid , intercostal and diaphragm) after six weeks of inspiratory muscle training , as measured by EMG , which indicates better recruitment and muscle electrical activity ; increase of at least 15% in thickness and mobility of the diaphragm evaluated by ultrasonography . 
Increased Maximum Inspiratory Pressure at 200 % assessed by the manometer , which indicates greater inspiratory muscle strength after six weeks of inspiratory muscle training . In addition to an expected 15% increase in the distance measured by the six-minute walk test , indicating better functional capacity . 
Impact of toothbrushing in the prevention of pneumonia in Intensive Care Unit - ICU
Impact of oral hygiene in the prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia in Intensive Care Unit: clinical trial
Intervention Group: 105 individuals submitted intubation and mechanical ventilation undergoing oral hygiene using toothbrushes with small and soft bristles, and dental gel based on 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate.

Control Group: 108 individuals submitted intubation and mechanical ventilation undergoing oral hygiene using gauze and spatula (swab) to applying 15 ml of 0.12% chlorhexidine gluconate oral solution.
Individuals with age equal or greater than 18 years; submitted to endotracheal intubation; expected to remain on mechanical ventilation for 
Individuals without teeth; suspicion of pneumonia at the time of endotracheal intubation; pregnancy; tracheostomy; chlorhexidine allergy.
Among the 213 patients, ventilatior-associated pneumonia occurred in 45 (21.1%), 28 (62,2%) being patients from the control group and 17 (37,8%) from the intervention group, with global incidence density equal to 14.2 by 1.000 MV/day. The use of toothbrushing plus 0.12% chlorhexidine gel demonstrated a lower incidence of VAP throughout the follow up period, although the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.084). 
As to the mortality, among the 213 patients, death occurred in 47 (22,06%); 27 (57,5%) being patients from the control group and 20 (42,5%) from the intervention group. The relative risk of death (RR=1,41) was higher in the control group, increasing the risk of death by 41%, although it was not statistically significant (p=0,296). Regarding the length of hospital stay in the ICU, the difference was not statistically significant (p= 0.064). There was a significant reduction of the mean time of mechanical ventilation in the group of patients who were submitted to toothbrushing (p= 0.018). 
Comparison of long-term effects of the technique with contraction of the belly muscles and stretching in patients with back pain
Comparison of long-term effects of segmental stabilization technique and stretching in patients with low back pain chronic nonspecific
Will be recruited 46 patients with chronic non-specific low back pain for treatment in the  lumbar segmental stabilization group guided by a physiotherapist. In this treatment the participant will be kept at 4 support position and will be instructed to 
For the study are included patients aged 18 to 65 years; patients with a diagnosis of non-specific low back pain with at least three months of progression of pain; patients who signed the informed consent and informed
Patients pregnant women; patients with specific diagnosis that cause low back pain;
orthopedic, rheumatic and neurological problems; nerve root injury; patients with impaired cognition; patients undergoing treatment during the study period; patient who underwent pre-treatment at least 3 months
Outcome: improvement of functional disability and pain related to lumbar spine, where the analysis of pain is verified by visual analogue scale and questionnaire mcgill, while the analysis of functional disability will be verified by the questionnaire roland morris after treatment by stabilizing and lumbar segmental stretching in individuals with nonspecific chronic low back from an expected difference (p <0.05) in the pretreatment tests and follow up 6 months and 1 year
Don't have second outcomes 
Heart rate recovery after the exercise: influence of neural mechanisms
Heart rate recovery after exercise: regulatory mechanisms
Experimental groups: 25 hypertensive men will perform 5 experimental sessions composed by a exercise on cyclergometer (30 minutes, intensity of 70% of the VO2peak workload) and 5 recovery protocols: a)inactive recovery; b) active recovery; c) assisted recovery; d) occlusion recovery; e) recovery with cooling. In addition, 25 normotensive men will perform the same interventions and will be considered the control group of this study.
Men. Aged between 40 and 60 years. Non smokers. Physically inactives (did not perform physical activity more than twice a week). Normotensives and hypertensives will form different groups. Hypertensives should not have end organ damage or secondary causes of hypertension according to the diagnotic rotine of the Hypertension League of Clinical Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, USP.
Subjects with obesity level 2 or greater(body mass index equal or greater than 35 kg/m2). Subjects with diabetes (fasting glycemia equal or greater than 126 mg/dl). Subjects with cardiac diseases (previous diagnosis or alteration on resting or exercise ECG). Use of anti-hypertensive medication.
Reduced heart rate recovery in the sessions "active", "assisted" and "with occlusion" and increased in the sessions "inactive" and "with cooling"; demonstrating the effects of the cardiovascular control mechanisms in the regulation of heart rate recovery after exercise
Reduced heart rate recovery in hypertensive group in comparison to normotensive due to dysfunction of one or several cardiovascular control mechanisms
Development of new equipment for neuromuscular electrical stimulation for use in the health unic system patients
Prototyping a neuromuscular stimulator and transfer of technology for use during hospital staying in the context of health unic system in the federal district
It will be held a randomized controlled trial to improve and consolidate the new equipment of NMES in the intensive care unit of tertiary hospital in the Federal District. Patients will be randomized into control group non treatment (CG), 30 patients, and NMES group (NG) with 30 patients that will be accompanied by the first day of ICU admission until discharge this unit. The evaluation of neuromuscular excitability, muscle architecture analysis and blood tests are performed on both groups the day of entry in the study and on days 3, 7, 10 and 14; respectively. Patients who remain hospitalized after this period will be evaluated in the ICU discharge day. After the first evaluation, the GC will perform the routine physiotherapy according to the protocol proposed by Morris and col17. The NG, in addition to routine physical therapy, will be submitted to NMES protocol in the quadriceps, hamstrings, gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles. These muscles will be treated with bipolar current with 100Hz frequency, pulse width equal to chronaxie evoking 45 contractions per session with the greatest possible intensity (up to 150 mA). One session per day, seven days a week will be held during.
Patients between 18 to 60 years old; patients undergoing mechanical ventilation; patients expected to be held in prolonged invasive ventilator support. 
Patients diagnosed with chronic diabetes mellitus; previous neuromuscular diseases, patients with a history of alcohol abuse; HIV-positive patients; history of chronic renal failure; patients using neurotoxic medications and / or neuromuscular blocker; spinal cord injury patients; pregnant; patients with skin lesions in the area to be treated; patients with BMI
It is hoped that this intervention decrease the patient's muscle mass losses during the ICU stay. For this purpose muscle architecture measurements will be performed (thickness and echogenicity) by means of ultrasonography B-mode, in the biceps brachialis, rectus femoris and tibialis anterior. A water-soluble transmission gel will be applied at the measurement site, and a 7.5 MHz linear transducer will positioned perpendicular to the tissue interface with the lowest possible compression of the skin. The transducer will be positioned in accordance with the previously mentioned recommendation. The biceps brachialis will be assessed in the distal 2/3 of the distance between the acromion and the elbow pit. The evaluation of the rectus femoris will be conducted in the average distance between the anterior superior iliac spine and the upper border of the patella. The tibialis anterior will be assessed at 1/4 proximal distance between the lower border of the patella and the lateral malleolus. The measures will always be carried out over the days in the same predefined area. Thus, all points will be marked with high fixing ink to avoid overwriting over days. The thickness and muscle echogenicity will be analyzed with the ImageJ software (http://imagej.nih.gov/ij/). Muscle echogenicity will be measured on the images by gray scale analysis. The region of interest for echogenicity measurement will be selected in each muscle to include as much as possible muscle area without any bone or surrounding fascia. The echogenicity in each region of interest will be calculated by averaging three measurements in each muscle.The publications have shown a decrease of 6 to 10% of muscle mass per week, and this can be demonstrated by decrease in the thickness at ultrasound image. In septic patients this loss can reach up to 16%. The echogenicity tends to increase, but as this value is not standardized between different ultrasound equipment that is only shown by the statistical increase.
It is expected that there is a reduction of the weaning time, total duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in the intensive care unit and hospital stay. Therefore, these data will be collected in the records and compared with the control group (non treatment).
Effects of rosuvastatin and sevelamer in coronary calcification in chronic kidney disease patients
Effects of rosuvastatin and sevelamer in coronary calcification in chronic kidney disease patients not on dialysis
Group A - Rosuvastatin 10mg MID,for 12 months 
All patients were older than 18 years and were followed by a nephrologist for at least 03 months.
Exclusion criteria were the presence of chronic inflammatory diseases, active malignancy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), viral hepatitis and chronic steroids intake.
Coronary calcification progression, determined by coronary tomography at study baseline and after follow up period.
Influence of an educational manual on the support provided by the companion in the delivery room
Effects of an educational manual on the support provided by companion during delivery
Experimental group: 21 companions had access to educational manual 
Accompany pregnant women are undergoing prenatal care in local search, monitor pregnant women who have normal delivery; It has been chosen by pregnant women to attend the birth in the accompanying condition; have up to four years of study
Have previous experience of witnessing the birth in the accompanying condition
Difference in average shares support the woman made by accompanying the intervention and control groups, measured through interviews postpartum and analyzed using the Student t test, control group caregivers developed 2.6 more support actions than intervention group.
Mean difference of 10.0 between groups in assessing the passenger experience in providing support to laboring women and mean difference of 11.7 in the evaluation of postpartum women about the experience and satisfaction with labor and delivery, measured by postpartum interview and analyzed using the Student t test.
Influence of subjective wellbeing in decision making
Influence of subjective wellbeing in decision making: an electrophysiological study
Experimental group: 37 medical students receive training with techniques of positive psychology (to increase optimism, happiness and decrease mental disorders)
Control group: 34 medical students receive traditional classroom
Medical students of the Federal University of Pernambuco
attending a course called Personal and Professional Development
Participate in less than 75% of the sessions
Greater subjective wellbeing scores in the group receiving the intervention compared to the control group measured by the satisfaction with life scale and positive/negative affect scale from the finding of a statistically significant difference between groups. 
Higher optimism scores in the group receiving the intervention compared to the control group measured by the LOT-R scale from the finding of a statistically significant difference between groups. 
Effects of a health education program for patients with fibromyalgia 
The impact of a health education program on neuroimmune and behavioral aspects of fibromyalgia patients
Experimental group (27 women with fibromyalgia) and control group (31 women with fibromyalgia). The experimental group underwent a program of health education called Inter - Relational School of Fibromyalgia. The control group (no treatment) did not receive any intervention. The intervention consisted of a program of health education, offered in lectures that aimed to teach the fibromyalgia patients, strategies to deal with the main symptoms of this condition. The topics discussed with patients during the class were: 1)therapeutic contract and workshop of the senses, 2)mental preparation, 3)physical preparation, 4)stress and individuality, 5)symptoms, 6)nutrition, 7)effects of chronicity, 8)available treatments and 9)retrospective. The intervention program lasted 11 weeks, the classes were once a week, on Saturday, from 08am to 10am. Between the sixth and seventh week there was a break of 15 days for patients in treatment could incorporate the strategies already taught to their daily lives, becoming more independent.
Female gender; aged between 18 and 60 years; fibromyalgia diagnosis confirmed by a medical specialist
Less than 18 years, over 60 years old; modification in the pharmacologic treatment in the last three months; chronic inflammatory condition associated; autoimmune disease associated; history or presence of psychiatric disorders, infectious diseases, use of anti-inflammatory, antiallergic or antibiotic drugs in the last three months, pregnant women, lactating, participation in lower 80% of the classes
Levels of cortisol in saliva (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) before and after intervention; inflammatory cytokine levels in serum (measured by flow cytometry)before and after intervention; 6-sulphatoxymelatonin levels in urine (measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay before and after intervention), levels of anxiety (measured by the Inventory of anxiety  trait and state )before and after intervention and impact of fibromyalgia on quality of life (measured by the Fibromyalgia impact questionnaire)before and after intervention.
Levels of salivary cortisol at 8am, 5pm and 10pm, measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, before and after the intervention. Plasma levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and IL-10, measured by flow cytometry, before and after the intervention. Plasma levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-2, IL-6, TNF, IFN and IL-17, mesuradas by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, before and after the intervention levels. The ratio of the anti-inflammatory /proinflammatory cytokines, before and after the end of intervention. Urinary levels of 6-sulphatoxymelatonin collected between 20h and 08h, measured by enzyme immunoassay before and after the end of the study. Levels of trait and state of anxiety, assessed before and after the intervention. Impact of fibromyalgia on quality of life, assessed before and after the intervention. Correlation between the variables that were significant changed at the end of study.
Applications of physioterapy equipments in low back pain
Application of electrothermotherapies resources in patientes with lumbar pain
Intervention 1- transcutaneous nerve stimulation (TENS). It will be selected 90 volunteers that   will be divided into 3 groups: TENS 1 (n=30), TENS2 (n=30), placebo (n=30). All groups will be submitted to one session of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation by 30 min. The TENS1 parameters will be: F= 100 Hz, D= 50 us and TENS2 (burst mode) will be: F= 2Hz, D= 100 us. The placebo group: will be submitted to 30 min of TENS off.
Intervention 2-  Interferential Current (IF).
localized lumbar pain; pain analogic visual scale (AVS) more than ; with more than 6 weeks; characterized chronic lumbar pain; lumbar pain with mechanic ethiology.
Physical activity people with more than 6 weeks
It has been realized lumbar surgery; it not have clinical diagnosis of lumbar pain and when the ethiology was not known; it don´t show irradiated lumbar pain to gluteus and lower limbs, thermic and sensibility alteration, pregnant woman, kidney problem; patients with pace marker; skin lesions; patients who utilized analgesic medication before 48 hours of application of resource. 
Lumbar pain decrease by increase of pain threshold evaluated in Kgf by pression algometry.
Abolition ou decrease of low back pain verified in pain analogic visual scale for at least one point in scale Decreased subjective perception of pain by decreasing the number of words chosen in the questionnaire of Mcgill Decreased subjective perception of pain by decreasing the percentage assessed in the questionnaire Owestry Decrease in disability by reducing the number of phrases in the chosen Questionnaire Roland Morris Disability
Vocabulary of children with Down syndrome
Receptive and expressive vocabulary of children with Down Syndrome
Observational Study of 42 children, 14 with Down syndrome (experimental group), of both genders, and chronological age between 38 and 63 months, 14 with typical development paired by gender and mental age with the experimental group, and 14 with typical development paired by gender and chronological age with the experimental group. An interview and the Child Language ABFW Vocabulary Test Part B were performed with aimed to verify the expressive vocabulary of children with Down Syndrome, compare it to the performance of children with typical development, in two distinct parameters: considering the chronological age and the mental age, separately, and determine the influence of the age considered in this population evaluation.
Experimental Group (EG): to have a diagnosis of Down Syndrome (Trisomy 21); have been born at term; have not been born with very low weight; have results indicative of normality in the neonatal auditory, visual and metabolism screenings (mainly for congenital hypothyroidism); do not have characteristics of the Autism Spectrum Disorder; have visual skills to carry out the activities proposed; attend rehabilitation procedures since the first trimester of life; be attending regular school (public) and be in the age group between 36 the 62 months of chronological age. 

Comparative group 1 (GC1) and Comparative Group 2 (GC2): to have typical neuropsychomotor development; have been born at term; have not been born with low weight; have results indicative of normality in the neonatal auditory, visual and metabolism screenings; do not have characteristics of the Autism Spectrum Disorder; have visual abilities to carry out the activities proposed; be paired according to gender, mental age (CG1), chronological age (CG2), school and socioeconomic status with the EG.
Presented: congenital hypothyroidism; born with very low weight; born preterm; signals of the Autism Spectrum Disorder; not initiated the rehabilitation procedures early and not attending school. 
After the statistical treatment, a statistically significant difference was verified in the comparison between the three groups regarding the skill naming correctly the image presented (p<0,001). It was possible to verify a statistically significant difference for the no designation (ND) in the comparison between the three groups by ANOVA (p<0,001). As the distribution of the scores in the skill processes of substitution did not present homogeneity, the Kruskal-Wallis test was performed. In this skill statistical analysis, there was no statistically significant difference between the groups (p=0,928).
There was no statistically significant difference between the group with Down syndrome and the group with typical development matched for mental age , neither of the skills (correct appointment, no appointment and replacement procedures) .
Use of Infrared Laser in Vaginal Delivery 
Use of Infrared Laser in Vaginal Delivery with Episiotomy: Randomized Controlled Trial
Sample - 50 women divided into 2 groups (25 in the control group and 25 in the experimental group). Intervention - laser irradiation at low intensity in healthy women with episiotomies. Experimental group: 25 patients will undergo three irradiations on perineal area (energy density 5J/cm2, power 20 mW) in 9 points (3 on episiotomy, third from the right side and three on the left side) lasting 10 seconds for each point. Interventions occur 6 to 10 hours after delivery, 20 to 24 hours and 40 to 48 hours after the first irradiation with a total of 0.2 J per point and a total energy of 1.8 J per session. In the control group, the procedures are the same, but without laser irradiation, using a probe which only emits a light guide.
Healthy women aged over 18 years. With term pregnancy (between 37 and 41 weeks and 6 days of gestation). Without previous vaginal birth. Having had spontaneous delivery with mediolateral episiotomy without perineal laceration. Episiorrhaphy performed with catgut simple. Single fetus in cephalic presentation and live. Not presenting an infectious disease, hemorrhoids, bruising or varicose veins in vulva-perineal region. Did not have any preparation of the perineal area during pregnancy. Do not use drugs photosensitising endogenous or exogenous. Not present clinical or obstetric complications.
Use any product in vulva-perineal region, other than soap and water.
Episiotomy healing will be evaluated before the three irradiations and 7 to 10 days after after discharge, with a numerical scale that quantifies the redness, edema ,ecchymosis, discharge and approximation of wound edges (Scale REEDA- Redness Edema Echymosis Discharge Aproximation). 
The intensity of pain will be evaluated by numerical scale from 0 to 10, with 0 is equal to no pain and 10 is the maximum pain. The evaluation will be done before and 30 minutes after irradiations. 
Ciprofloxacin effectiveness of the assessment to prevent bacterial infection of patients victims of accidents with snake in the Brazilian Amazon
Early empirical antibiotic therapy: a randomized clinical trial for superiority of a ciprofloxacin versus placebo in for preventing secondary bacterial infection among snakebite victims in the Brazilian Amazon
Use of early empirical antibiotic therapy for Treatment of the secondary infection in the snakebite.The two groups will initially be hospitalized and followed for at least seven (7) days.
Experimental group: 117 patients involved in accidents with snake. The group with the intervention proposal will receive the same established treatment, and added early empirical antibiotic therapy. The antibiotic of choice is ciprofloxacin (500mg / day) for three (3) days from the date of admission. It is easy to administer oral antibiotics.
To have less than 24 hours of the accident; did not to use any antibiotics before answering the institution; to have not done the antivenom for the current snakebite ; to have no abscess or infection clearly established at the time of admission ; not to be allergic to the antibiotic of choice in this study ; not to be pregnant and not accept participate.
have mental inability to understand the objectives of the study and participate in the survey; have acute or chronic unstable; unavailability of stay in hospital for seven days to follow.
Reduction of secondary infection snakebite by 50% for patients in the group treated with antibiotic therapy early - intervention group. The primary endpoint for the occurrence of infection understand the time of recruitment until 48 hours after the intervention.
Determining a clinical score for bacterial infection and possible early detection for protocol establishment of the event by markers of laboratory tests and clinical outcome.The secondary outcome for the occurrence of infection comprise the period after 48 hours to 7 days after the intervention.
Factors Associated With Abdominal Pain in Patients Submitted to Colonoscopy
Evaluation Factors Associated With Abdominal Pain in Patients Submitted to Colonoscopy
Objective: identify factors related to the patient and examination that can be associated with abdominal pain during colonoscopy, evaluate the level of pain presented by the patients and evaluate the efficacy of conscious sedation.

It was a observational cross-sectional study, that evaluated 957 patients
patients of both genders; patients who underwent colonoscopy exam
patients who underwent urgent examination; patients who require deep sedation; patients with incomplete records
Outcome Found: In relation to gender, men have a higher tolerance to colonoscopy than women. Of the 391 male patients, 22 (5.6%) had some abdominal complaint about the procedure. Among the 566 women who underwent colonoscopy, the pain was reported in 67 (11.8%) patients (p = 0.011). Table 3 shows the abdominal pain levels according to gender. The mean duration of colonoscopy in patients without abdominal complaints was 10.57 minutes and the mean of patients with abdominal pain was 12.26 minutes (p = 0.001). It was observed that the higher the colonoscope insertion time, which corresponds to the time elapsed since the device's introduction to his arrival in the cecum, the greater the level of pain of patients (p = 0.036). Women had a longer intubation time, with an average time of 11.18 minutes, while men had an average intubation time 10.38 minutes (p = 0.001). With regard to medications, 170 patients received additional doses of midazolam in accordance with abdominal complaints mentioned during the test. The mean dose of midazolam administered in patients with discomfort was 5,67mg, higher than the average dose in patients without complaints, 5,16mg (p <0.001 *)  Methods: The description of the variables was performed using mean and standard deviation for numerical variables and relative frequencies for categorical variables. For the association of categorical variables we used the chi square for the comparison of means was used the Student t test and the correlation of the variables we used the Spearman correlation coefficient, with rho (?) between -1 and +1.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Comparison of two treatments of wounds in the nipples of breastfeeding women

Clinical trial for the management of nipple trauma on breastfeeding

A randomized controlled trial, unblinded. Study focusing on the type of treatment intervention. The sample consists of 100 mothers, in breastfeeding in the maternity, with nipple trauma unilateral or bilateral, being allocated in group 1 or 2,  after the randomization, by lot with a sealed envelope containing the intervention 1 or intervention 2. The minimum age of woman for inclusion in the study was 18 years and was not given the maximum age. The group 1 (50 women) applying  of anhydrous lanolin in nipple trauma (fatty substance that because their properties to maintain a barrier that prevents loss of natural moisture of the skin layers, has been recommended for the healing of nipple traumas) after each feeding.Group 2 (50 women): applying 3 to 4 drops of breast milk (composed of antibodies (IgA) and inflammatory cells that help in the healing of the lesion) after each feeding, with clean hands and put breast nipple shell  (not flexible plastic device that provides a barrier of protection from friction and / or pressure garments overlaid and other contacts the skin of the nipple, with passage of air for aeration of the breast). Both groups received counseling for breastfeeding. The women received daily monitoring by a nurse midwife, and the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and 9th day of treatment by telephone and on the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th and 10th day of treatment, direct assessment, in home visit. Evaluation of healing of nipple trauma in both groups was determined by the Nipple Trauma Score (NTS) on a scale of zero to five. This scale represents zero: nNo microscopically visible skin changes; 1 Erythema or edema or combination of both; 2 Superficial damage with or without scab formation of less than 25% of the nipple surface; 3 Superficial damage with or without scab formation of more than 25% of the nipple surface; 4 Partial-thickness wound with or without scab formation of less than 25% of the nipple surface; 5 Partial-thickness wound with or without scab formation of more than 25% of the nipple surface. Pain assessment was determined by the numeric pain scale of 11 numbers (0 to 10), with 0 as no pain and 10 the worst possible pain. The assessment was made of all follow-up days (1st to 10th day). 
Woman in exclusive breastfeeding; have old 18 years or more; having given birth to infants who are able to be breastfed; have a telephone for contact; presenting clinical evidence of detectable macroscopically unilateral or bilateral nipple trauma in the period up to day 10 postpartum.

Health problems that interfere with the healing process; anatomical changes that favor the nipples nipple trauma (inverted nipple, inverted nipple pseudo); residence outside the city of Goiania - GO.
 It is expected that the more rapid healing present in one of the groups, in other words, zero is the most frequent and appears faster in one group.
It is hoped that the present numeric pain scale values decrease faster in one of two groups, each day of monitoring.
Comparative efficacy and safety study of dolutegravir and lopinavir/ritonavir in second-line treatment
200304 - A phase 3b,randomised,open-label study of the antiviral activity and safety of dolutegravir compared to lopinavir/ritonavir both administered with dual nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapy in HIV-1 (Type I virus of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) infected adult
subjects with treatment failure on first line therapy
It will be included 612 subjects randomized on proportion of 1:1 divided on 2 treatment
HIV-1 infected subjects greater or equal to 18 years of age;

A female subject may be eligible to enter and participate in the study if she: is of non-childbearing potential defined as either post-menopausal (12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea and greater or equal to 45 years of age) or physically incapable of becoming pregnant with documented tubal ligation, hysterectomy, or bilateral oophorectomy or, is of child-bearing potential, with a negative pregnancy test at both screening and day 1 and agrees to use one of the protocol-defined methods of contraception to avoid pregnancy;
Women who are breastfeeding;  any evidence of an active Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Category C disease exceptions include cutaneous Kaposi
The proportion of subjects responsive from the randomized subjects that received at least one dose of study medication (intention to treat population): It will be analize on time frame: 48 week; Using the Snapshot algorithm of FDA; Plasma HIV-1 ribonucleic acid (RNA) less than 50 copies per millilitre (c/mL)  The proportion of subjects non responsive: Subjects with HIV-1 RNA greater or equal than 50 c/mL; Without HIV RNA data at week 48, subjects with background ART substitutions not permitted per protocol and subjects with background ART substitutions permitted per protocol after week 4 but where their last HIV-1 RNA result prior to the date of decision to switch was greater or equal than 50 c/mL
Proportion of subjects with plasma HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL using the Snapshot algorithm on week 24;  Proportion of subjects with plasma HIV-1 RNA <400 c/mL using the Snapshot algorithm on week 24; Proportion of subjects without virologic or tolerability failure by Weeks 24 and 48;Incidence of disease progression; 
Alterations in gastric mucosa of cirrhotic patients
The effect of portal hypertension on elevated gastric antrum erosions
Experimental group (Portal hypertension - group I): we included 28 patients diagnosed with portal hypertension, these patients were characterized by the presence of esophageal varices, with or without portal hypertensive gastropathy, of both sexes, older than 18 years and held endoscopy with antral biopsy. Control group (No portal hypertension - group II): were included 41 patients without diagnosis of portal hypertension, which also had elevated antral erosions, where endoscopy and antral biopsy was performed.
The study included 69 volunteers of both sexes; from 18 to 80 years of age; presenting elevated antral erosions during endoscopy; with or without portal hypertension.
The volunteers who had prior treatment to eradicate Helicobacter pylori; who had recently used antibiotics or who have not agreed to participate in the study were excluded.
After finishing the study we found that elevated antral erosions in patients with portal hypertension are the result of edema and vascular congestion, different from patients without portal hypertension which are the result of inflammatory infiltrate, when analyzed the biopsies performed by endoscopy, with 95% for sure.
After conducting the study we did not find a statistically significant difference from the presence of H. pylori and inflammatory infiltrate.
Ocular surface evaluation in ocular hypertension or inicial glaucoma patients treated with drops.
Ocular surface evaluation in patients treated with prostaglandin analogues or timolol maleate monotherapy compared to  patients treated with fixed combination of prostaglandin analogues and timolol maleate 0,5% monotherapy 
33 Patients will be allocated in 3 groups includind 11 patients in each, following permuted- block randomization method (Block size=3; allocation rate 1:1:1). These patients will be treated with fixed combination of prostaglandin/timolol maleate monotherapy ( one daily drop) for 3 months, distributed as follows:Group 1- Latanoprost +Timolol (LT);Group 2- Bimatoprost + Timolol (BT) and Group 3-Travoprost + Timolol (TT), independently of age, sex or residence.
Clinical data collected will include patients’ demographic data (age and sex). All patients will be underwent routine ophthalmological examination, slit lamp biomicroscopy, Goldmann applanation tonometry and ocular surface evaluation before and after three months of treatment. Ocular surface evaluation will include biomicroscopic examination focusing on the lids, conjunctiva, cornea and tear film. The Schirmer II test will be performed, lissamine green vital staining scores will be recorded and tear film break-up time (TBUT) will be measured before impression cytology samples will be taken. The OSDI questionnaire will be also applied.
Glaucoma or ocular hypertension patients with no previous topical hypotensive treatment.


 Previous ocular surgery, active ocular inflammation or clinically diagnosed dry eye.
IOP Reduction evaluated by ocular tonometry with Goldman Tonometry always at same time (8 am), comparing IOP measurements media pre and  post-treatment
Ocular Surface Changes induced by medications used evaluated by break-up time ( TBUT: normal values over 15 seconds), Schirmmer test (normal above 15mm),Green Lissamine vital stainig ( graduated from zero to 9)and changes of score values of OSDI form between inicial and final evaluation. Celular architecture will be evaluated using impression cytology technique and inflammatory parameters will be detected by immunohistochemistry ( HLA-DR and IL-6).
Effect of cinnamon intake on cardiovascular risk factors in elderly
Effect of cinnamon (Cinnamomum sp) intake on metabolic syndrome and its components in elderly
Intervention group (GCA): Volunteers (70) will be instructed to ingest 8 capsules per day containing cinnamon (cinnamon 3g/day), with the recommendation that they must ingest 2 capsules at breakfast, afternoon snack, lunch and dinner, for a 12 weeks period.
Control group (GCO): Volunteers (70) will be instructed to ingest 8 capsules per day containing starch (placebo), with the recommendation that they must ingest 2 capsules at breakfast, afternoon snack, lunch and dinner, for a 12 weeks period.
60 years or older; patients diagnosed with metabolic syndrome; participate of social groups in Erechim, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
Be under nutritional treatment; use or change the dose of lipid-lowering drugs, antihypertensive and hypoglycemic less than three months; be patient with insulin dependent diabetes; alcoholic (alcohol abuse present above 30g ethanol/day); be patient with chronic renal failure, with serum creatinine levels above 1.4 mg/dL; be patient with swallowing disorders; be patient with esophagitis, gastritis and duodenitis.
Decrease in the glucose levels, verified trought glucose quantification, in the case of at least 5% variation between pre and post intervention quantification. Decrease in de hight density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-cholesterol) levels, verified trought HDL-cholesterol quantification, in the case of at least 5% variation between pre and post intervention quantification. Decrease in the triglycerides levels,  verified trought triglycerides quantification, in the case of at least 5% variation between pre and post intervention quantification. Decrease of abdominal circumference, verified trought abdominal circumference quantification, in the case of at least 5% variation between pre and post intervention quantification. Decrease of blood pressure levels, verified trought blood pressure quantification, in the case of at least 5% variation between pre and post intervention quantification.
There are no outcomes expected.
 Asthma control evaluation with inhaled  corticosteroid spray aided by non valved homemade spacer.
Asthma control evaluation with inhaled  corticosteroid spray aided by non valved homemade spacer.
All the recruited patients are to be diagnosed as asthmaticsby the specialyst (allergist or pneumologist) and requiring use of beclomethasone for control. All will be assessed by the 
180 Volunteers with asthma poorly or partially controlled as defined by GINA (Global Initiative for Asthma); aged between 18 and 65; who had inhaled corticosteroid prescription for daily use by the attending physician.
Patients unable to use the inhaled drug due to motors or mental problems; with other lung diseases diagnosed or reported; who can not perform spirometry, unable to properly use the homemade or commercial spacers after watching educational film three times; patients who refuse to participate and sign the consent form.
Both groups showed a statistically significant change compared to basal values(p <0.001) 30 and 60 days after starting the experiment (beclomethasone spray aided by homemade spacer -Hm - or by  commercial valved spacer - CV), with an increase of 7.0 and 7,8 points for the Hm group and 5.9 and 7.0 for the CV group (p = 0.261 between groups) respectively at days 30 and 60.
In the Hms group FEV1 increased from a Mean of 1,75 liter/second to 2,12 and 2,15 at days 30 and 60. in VCS group it rose from 1,86L/sec. to 2,19 and 2,21 at day 30 and 60, with difference from basal values but no difference between groups.
Evaluation of electroacupuncture on the treatment of neck and sholder pain
Evaluation of Electroacupuncture on the myofascial pain treatment of the upper trapezius muscle
Electroacupuncture was applied to 20 females. Each volunteer received two sessions weekly and all nine sessions were scheduled at the same time of the day. The SF-36 questionnare was applied in the beginning of the first and the ninth sessions, following by the Visual analog Scale (VAS); electromyography (EMG) and pain pressure threshold (PPT) were assessed after VAS during the first, fifth and ninth sessions.
During EA application, the patient remained sited in a chair. Needles were inserted bilaterally in the points GB21, GB20, LI4, LV3 and directly in the region of the MTrPs (maximum of four needles). The equipment was programmed as follows: alternating frequency F1=2Hz, T1=5 seconds, F2=100 Hz, T2=5 seconds; total time: 30 minutes; intensity: maximum supported by the patient without pain. EA was performed in the same manner in all sessions.
Female, age range from 18 to 40 years, at least one MTrPs in the upper trapezius muscle, local or referred persistent pain for at least six months, regular menstrual cycles controlled by the use of oral contraceptive, and right-handed.  
 Accentuated postural abnormalities, verified by the physiotherapist (MFMA), fibromyalgia syndrome, cervical radiculopathy, systemic disease or therapeutic interventions for physical myofascial pain within the past month before the study, pregnancy, chronic pacemaker or electronic implants, the last ones informed by the subject. The continuous use of medications to treat headache and muscular pain was also an exclusion criterion. Moreover, if evident cognitive impairment or communication difficulties were observed by the examiner (MFMA) at the first meeting, the subject was not included.
It was expected that electroacupuncture would decrease the volunteers myofascial pain. The measures used due to evaluate the results were: pain intensity , using visual analog scale; pain pressure threshold, using digital algometry; muscle electrical activity, using electromyography. Due to the pain relief, it was also expected that the quality of life enhancing. This variable mas measured by the SF-36 questionnare.  The results showed that accupuncture was effective on myofacial pain of the studied sample. The pain intensity decreased, the pain pressure threshold increased, the muscle electrical activity during right upper trapezius isometric contraction increased after the nine sessions. That was also observed after the last session at the left upper trapezius, suggesting muscle function enhancement provided by EA. Furthermore, the quality of life was improved, related to physical components domain of the SF-36 questionnaire. Large randomized blinded controlled trials might be carried out to confirm these results. In accordance with these preliminary findings, the electroacupuncture can be considered a relevant tool for the management of myofascial pain.
Peripheral nerve blocks in patients undergoing shoulder surgery
A comparative study between interscalene brachial plexus block and selective suprascapular and axillary nerve block in arthroscopic shoulder surgery
Patients will be randomly assigned to two groups, with thirty people in each group:
GI - 30 patients undergoing interscalene blockade by Winnie with the aid of a peripheral nerve stimulator (Stimuplex, B. Braun, Melsungen, Germany) and A50 needle (B. Braun Melsunger) and 30ml of 0.375% bupivacaine are administered with vasoconstrictor.
Candidates for arthroscopic shoulder surgery; aged between 18 and 80 years old; of either gender; of ASA physical status I or II; with a body mass index below 35 kg/m2; capable of understanding the visual analogue pain scale; and with no medical allergies
Patients who do not accepted participate in the study
Sensory block was assessed by loss of cold sensation in the area of innervation of nerves with their use of cotton soaked in ether. Motor block was evaluated by Bromage scale grade 1 = no blocking, grade 2 = unable to abduction and external rotation of the arm, grade 3 = complete block of every shoulder, arm and forearm). Cardiovascular parameters (heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressures) were measured and recorded upon arrival in the operating room (T1), every 5 minutes after the blockade after 30 minutes after the start of surgery (T2), in the wake (T3) and on discharge from the recovery room (PACU) (T4). Cardiocirculatory instability (BP and HR> 30% of baseline pressure of patients) was also considered as a criterion for postoperative failure. Analgesia was measured by visual analog scale (O-no pain, 10 - worst possible pain) at times T0 (PACU), T6 (6 h after blocking) T12 (12 hours after the lock) and T24 (24 hours after the lock).  
Cardiocirculatory parameters,incidence of nausea and vomiting, motor block discomfort 
Comparison of Two Types of General Anesthesia, Venous versus Inhalatory, regarding the Risk of Renal Injury after Videolaparoscopic Obesity Surgery
Efficacy of Total Intravenous Anesthesia (TIVA) in blocking Perioperative Elevation of NGAL in Laparoscopic Bariatric Surgery
Sixty-four morbidly obese patients undergoing elective laparoscopic obesity surgery  were randomly selected for total intravenous anesthesia ( TIVA ) or inhalation anesthesia ( SEVO ), 32 patients each group. Patients in both groups received 5 mg of midazolam and 5 mcg / kg of fentanyl ( ideal body weight) intravenously to initiate anesthesia . In SEVO group , propofol was used for the induction of sleep at a dose of 1 mg / kg (actual weight) and sevoflurane was administered via inhalation to maintain anesthesia throughout the surgery . In the TIVA group, a continuous, target controlled (by a computer program), intravenous infusion of propofol was used for initiation and maintenance of unconsciousness during anesthesia. In both groups, a continuous intravenous infusion of remifentanil was used to control the response to pain during surgery, clinically titrated. Difference of anesthetic technique between the two groups consisted of the drugs used for maintenance of general anesthesia, continuous propofol target controlled in TIVA group and sevoflurane in SEVO group. 
The groups were compared for incidence of acute kidney injury by serum creatinine, urine output, and elevation of serum lipocalin 2 (NGAL), at three time points: M0 - just before the outset  of anesthesia; M1 - 6 hours after surgery and M2 - 24 hours after surgery.
morbidly obese patients, scheduled for video laparoscopic bariatric surgery; both gender; age between 18 and 65 year.
volunteers with lung disease; heart failure; renal failure; cancer of any etiology; patients on chronic corticosteroid use; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Observed primaryoutcome - We did not find significant differences in serum lipocalin between the groups for general anesthesia during the procedure
Secondary outcomes observed - We did not find significant differences in the rates of acute kidney injury defined by clinical and laboratory criteria (RIFLE criteria) between the two  groups of general anesthesia in the perioperative period of laparoscopic bariatric surgery
Interpersonal psychotherapy counseling for depressed children’s caregivers
Interpersonal psychotherapy counseling for Depressed children’s caregivers
Experimental group: 240 dyads ( caregiver and children - Children under 12 years old) showing symptoms of depression, will be randomized to receive treatment through the TIP ( interpersonal therapy ) or usually administered therapy ( TAU ) . Control group: 120 healthy dyads that will be evaluated by the same instruments , but will not go through any intervention. The evaluations will be carried out in three waves: pre- treatment , immediately after treatment (about a 2 months after the first assessment ) and 6 months after treatment ends.
Depressive episode due to the presence of TDM according to the criteria of the DSMIVR received after administration of KSADS; score lower than 20 on the HDRS; both sex; be under 12 years old; parents must consent to participation by signing the informed consent form previously approved by the Ethics Committee of UNIFESP; preferably one caregiver to the child
Caregiver who receive treatment are using antidepressant medications or psychotherapy is in process; have a risk of suicide assessed by an item of PHQ9 scale, or have a score lower than 3 on the HAMD3, or through the clinical judgment of the SCID applicator; presents diagnostic criteria after administration of the SCIDI for psychoactive substances in the past 6 months; presents diagnostic criteria for bipolar disorder, schizophrenia or related disorders by administering the SCIDI; assumes that do not have the opportunity to follow the TIP sessions.
Reduction or remission of depression symptoms from the entry, seen through the result of depression assessment tool in caregivers (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression - HDRS) from the observation of the variation of at least 50% in depression scores pre and post intervention.
Decrease of psychiatric and behavioral symptoms in children , assessed by CBCL (Check -list for behavioral and emotional problems ) from the observation on ths scores changes, from clinic range (>61)at pre-intervention to normal range (<60)at post-intervention.
Monitoring of caries lesions among primary teeth after block with resin infiltrant 
Progression of early proximal caries lesions on primary molars after Sealing with Resin Infiltration: longitudinal follow up
28 patients with 2 carious lesions, will have their lesion teeth devided into:
Test Group: 28 patients; Application of Resin Infiltarnt in  28 carious lesions on the proximal surface with radiographic image extending to the outer third of dentin in primary molars.
Patients with at least 2 not clinically evident carious lesions that only involve proximal surface, in primary molars that presents radiolucence to the outer third of dentin.
Children who refuse to carry out longitudinal follow-up radiographs.
Decrease in radiographic progression of proximal caries lesions in primary teeth after sealing with resin infiltraste after 36 months follow-up. Measured by the bitewing radiography exam. It will be performed by a blinded examiner, calibrated to evaluate the depth of lesions before treatment and after 36 months of follow-up. Digital radiographs were scored according to the following criteria:  E1: radiolucency confined to the outer half of enamel E2: radiolucency involving the inner half of enamel D1: radiolucency in the outer third of dentin  D2: radiolucency in the middle third of dentin  D3: radiolucency in the inner third of dentin
Decrease in radiographic progression of proximal caries lesions in primary teeth after sealing with resin infiltraste after 18 months follow-up. Measured by the bitewing radiography exam. It will be performed by a blinded examiner, calibrated to evaluate the depth of lesions before treatment and after 18 months of follow-up. Digital radiographs were scored according to the following criteria: E1: radiolucency confined to the outer half of enamel E2: radiolucency involving the inner half of enamel D1: radiolucency in the outer third of dentin  D2: radiolucency in the middle third of dentin  D3: radiolucency in the inner third of dentin
Deep Water Running in reducing body weight, improved functional capacity and quality of life in obese
Effect of Deep Water Running in body composition, functional capacity and quality of life in pre-obese and obese adults: randomized controlled trial
The intervention program will have 12 weeks, with frequency of three times a week on alternate days. Volunteers will be randomly allocated into two groups: water group of 15 volunteers who will be submitted to the aquatic intervention program in a therapeutic pool temperature maintained between 32 C and 33 C. The Deep Water Running program will consist of heating, water exercises based, using pelvic belt and weights and cool-down. The duration of the exercises and the intensity will be progressive. The second group is the control group inactive: 15 elderly, who do not perform any type of exercise or other physical therapy.
Volunteers of both sexes; adults in the age group of 39 to 59 years of age; classified as pre-obese  and obesity I  according to the III Brazilian Guidelines on Obesity. Show good adaptation to the liquid medium; perform the entry; exit and walking in the pool independently, and adequately perform the Deep Water Running technique in interval training system (DWR-STI). All volunteers must submit prescription attesting to the absence of restrictive heart disease the practice of aquatic physical training.
cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal and neuromuscular diseases that impede the realization of the aquatic training program; as well as the following contraindications of aquatic physical therapy; hydrophobia; skin wounds and infectious diseases.
Volunteers may not have taken part in other physical training program for at least two months before the start of data collection, as well as carrying out other training or nutritional monitoring program for the aquatic intervention.
Increased lean body mass between 20 and 30%, and decreased coporal fat by 2% both evaluated by electrical bioimpedance, improved functional capacity, assessed by the Walk Test 6 minutes 6MWT) will around 35 meters more than the distance above and improves the quality of life assessed by the Impact of Weight on quality of life-Lite (IWQOL-LITE) between 70-80% in the domains physical function, self-esteem, difficulty in public places and work in the water group after end of the intervention. In the control group is expected to occur no changes in the values of any variable analyzed.
The results of the Water Group (Intervention) are statistically better (considering p <0.05) than the control group, the following variables: body composition assessed by bioelectrical impedance analysis, functional capacity assessed by the 6MWT and quality of life assessed by IWQOL- LITE after the end of treatment.
Use of insoles on the improvement in individuals after stroke.
Postural Insoles Influence  on  Functional Capacity of Individuals Post-Stroke: Study Randomized Controlled Trial.
Random allocation. Control Group (CG): 13 subjects, placebo insole, Insole Standard Group (GPPa): 13 individuals, insole postural corrective elements with predetermined proposal for pathology; Group Custom Insole (GPPE): 13 subjects, postural insole custom developed by computerized baropodometry. Reviews of the functionality of the march through the three-dimensional gait analysis, static equilibrium through stabilometry, functional balance scales with Berg, Time Up and Go, Functional mobility through the questionnaire mobility and functional independence and quality of life across the range of specific quality of life in stroke (SS-QOL) immediately after placement of the insoles, 1 month and 6 months after the use of the same. 
Participants will be selected based on the eligibility criteria: have a diagnosis of both hemorrhagic stroke as ischemic, with spastic hemiplegia, spasticity classification by modified Ashworth scale levels 1, 1 + and 2 have walk independently without the use of any device auxiliary or ankle-foot orthosis (AFO), have degrees of understanding and collaboration consistent with the achievement of the proposed activities, agree to participate in the study by signing the consent form.
Individuals with stroke who have undergone surgical procedures or the application of phenol in the last 12 months or neurolytic blocks in the last 6 months, and ankle deformities.
Improvement in functional mobility and balance with the use of postural insoles in subjects after stroke.
Improved quality of life through the responses Stroke Specific Quality of Life Scale(SS-QOL).
Validation of Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test for Muscular Dystrophy
Validation of Portuguese Version of Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test for Patients with Muscular Dystrophy
The intervention study is the application of the Jebsen Taylor Test and Functional Ability Scale in patients with muscular dystrophy, in just a moment evaluation. 30 volunteers will be assessed. The Jebsen Taylor Test aims to assess the function of the arms and hands. Was translated into Portuguese and validated to be applied in adults after stroke. The test consists of seven subtests (subtest 1: Writing; subtest 2: turn card; subtest 3: pick up small common objects; subtest 4: simulate power; subtest 5: pick up game pieces lady; subtest 6: pick up objects and wide light and subtest 7: pick up objects with broad and weight). For the application, the volunteers should remain seated in a chair or in your standard wheelchair, facing a table of adjustable height. The subtests must be performed in sequence, first with the non-dominant arm, followed by the dominant. The sub will be filmed and the videos will be analyzed later by the evaluators. The execution time of each subtest will be recorded and measured objectively through cronômetro.Junto with the Jebsen Taylor Test is applied to Functional Ability Scale. The score for this ranges from 0 to 5 where 0 volunteer does not perform any attempt to move the upper member 5 and the volunteer performs the normal movement, and coordination with the speed of movement within normal limits. For the study, randomization is not needed, so there will be a division nãou study arms. There will not be utilized and masking placebo.
Individuals with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophies types, Waistlines, Congenital, Fascioescapuloumeral and Myotonic with diagnosis confirmed
by immunohistochemical and / or muscle biopsy, which have seven years of age or older and who were monitored
Difficulty understanding simple verbal commands, deficits-visual and / or auditory preventing the implementation of the research protocol, presence of associated neurological disease
Validation Test Jebsen Taylor and Functional Ability Scale for the population of muscular dystrophies by applying in 30 patients with this disease and finding the sensitivity of these two tests to detect changes in the impairment of arm movements after applying these new instruments in a 6 months
The second secondary endpoint is the comparison or correlation of the Jebsen Taylor Test and Functional Ability Scale with other assessment tools present in the scientific literature: Vignos the scale, the scale brooke and 3 dimensional measure of motor function.
Promotion of self-care for people with Diabetes
Consultation of nursing as a strategy for the promotion of self-care for people with Diabetes Mellitus
Experimental group: 67 individuals diagnosed with Diabetes Mellitus, will participate in three nursing visits (lasting no more than 1 hour, with a minimum interval of two months and a maximum of 2 months and 15 days between each) and receive two phone calls (with an average duration of 15 minutes) with a minimum interval of one month and a maximum of one month and 15 days after each query. In consultations related guidance will be offered to foot care, diet, drug treatment, 
insulin, physical activity, self-care, in addition to the measurement of blood pressure and assessment of anthropometric measurements. At the beginning and end of the intervention collection of biological material for analysis of blood levels of total cholesterol (TC), high density lipoprotein (HDL-C), low density lipoprotein (LDL-C), triglycerides (TG) will occur, glucose and glycated hemoglobin. 
Be registered in the Basic Health Unit as a person diagnosed with Diabetes Mellitus type 2; minimum age of 40 years; both genders; have availability to attend consultations.
Do not move to the Health Unit for consultations; Cognitive impairment and \ or hearing referred by the health team.
Average reduction of glycated hemoglobin (0.7) within five months verified by the nursing consultation with the use of self-care supported from the observation of a variation of approximately 8.1% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Increased knowledge score and attitude towards the disease, the 5-month period by performing nursing consultations with the use of self-care supported with little knowledge of evolution of the disease to satisfactory knowledge, as to attitude although the final score has improving the negative attitude remained prevalent.
self-care economic evaluation of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
Pharmacotherapeutic strategy for individual empowerment of patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 - pharmacoeconomic analysis
Group Intervention: Individual Empowerment pharmacotherapy (EIEF). 46 participants. Three meetings with the pharmaceutical, 1st meeting: presentation of the project, informed consent signature, application tests - No intervention, therefore, does not count as part of EIEF. After 15 days against 2 - Identification of the problem (s) (s) together with the patient; Identification of priority to be worked. After 30 days - 3 - selection of an activity, task or action to establish a goal. After 120 days it happens the 4th meeting to evaluate the results and guidelines for the continuation of autocuidado.Grupo control: 37 patients. conventional care offered by the municipality. Not with the participation of the clinical pharmacist at any stage of the process. The frequency and duration of activities varies according to the organization of the ESF. The procedures involve medical consultations in primary care and specialized care, dispensing drugs, consultations with nurses, emergency room visits and hospital admissions when necessary.
Group Intervention: Patients with DM2 registered HIPERDIA. Aged 18 years. Both sexos.Residentes in the areas of coverage of ESFs belonging to the study. Graduates of EIEF. Low and moderate cardiovascular risk, according to the Framingham score. Control Group: Patients with DM2 registered HIPERDIA. Age less than 18. Both sexes. Residents in the areas covered by ESFs belonging to the study. No participant in any meeting of EIEF. Low and moderate cardiovascular risk, according to the Framingham score.
Group Intervention: Participants from other intervention projects related to DM. reduced cognitive ability, classified by the team of the FHS, as unable to reproduce the transferred information. Control Group:Indivíduos participants from other intervention projects related to DM. Patients with reduced cognitive ability, classified by the ESF team, as unable to reproduce the transferred information. Patients without result HbA1c in the reference period for data collection the study.
VVariation of 0.67 in mean glycated hemoglobin , comparing the beginning and end of the study , verified by conducting the laboratory examination .
Markov modeling: Patients will be allocated according to the Markov health status (healthy, stable, blindness and death). Each of these branches node has a probability weight ranging between 0 and 1. It is then held Markov modeling ten cycles, each cycle corresponding to a year. Thus, you can estimate the number of patients who could develop any complications related to DM2 the end of ten years. The terminal node death will also be possible to estimate the number of years of life were saved by the intervention.
The effectiveness of HIV preventive methods in Brazilian health service
Pre- and post-exposure prophylaxes and the combination HIV prevention methods: protocol for a pragmatic clinical trial at public healthcare clinics in Brazil
In the first component, the protective effect of PEPsexual will be evaluated. Therefore, individuals (estimated total of 3200), with 16 years or more, without HIV infection who are sexually exposed and attended at healthcare clinics will be followed by six months after being allocated to one of two groups, which can be summarized thus: 

•	PEPsexual group: 1600 individuals who come to the clinic less than 72 hours after sexual exposure and start PEPsexual use, according to the protocol defined by the Health Ministry; 
Seek care in service for the use of PEPsexual or report sexual exposure to HIV in a consensual relationship in the last 30 days in accordance to the criteria defined by the Health Ministry for use of prophylaxis;
16 years of age or over; 
Having sought PEPsexual for the purpose of assisted reproduction or due to occupational exposure or sexual violence; 
Difference in the occurrence of infection, verified through semi-annual screening laboratory tests with positive results (ELISA or rapid test) and confirmed by western blot, immunofluorescence or a second rapid test.  
Difference in the occurrence of unprotected sexual practices for HIV infection, reported in semi-annual questionnaires, characterized by not using any preventive method in sexual intercourse; 
Clinical research of pain during treatment sealants in children using a new topical anesthetic photoactivated
Clinical evaluation of intraoperative pain in children undergoing preventive treatment using a new topical anesthetic photoactivated
Experimental group: The resin sealant will be held on 36 and 46 teeth of 80 patients. A photoactivated topical anesthetic to be used in each of these teeth will be determined by randomization via second size blocks and 4, in a sealed envelope will be an indication of treatment of the tooth 36, the other treatment applied to the tooth 46. the application of topical anesthetic photoactivated, the quadrants are isolated with cotton rolls and agents applied around the tooth and gingiva (collar 1 to 2 mm) with the aid of an applicator tip. The product will immediately light cured with the aid of a curing light for 30 seconds. After curing the product, the clip 26 is positioned with a door-clip forceps to check the adjustment of the same, this time the pain of the risk will be assessed through a dichotomous scale prevalence, and intensity will be assessed using different scales ( range of facial expression Wong-Baker, numerical 11 points and observational FLACC). The application of resin sealant is first carried out on the tooth 36. After isolation with a rubber dam, the enamel surface is etched with 37% phosphoric acid for 30 seconds, followed by washing with water and drying the surface with compressed air. The resin sealant is applied and light cured for 40 seconds. The same procedure will be performed on tooth 46.
Control group: the same steps will be made already described above but using a placebo. The resin sealant will be held on 36 and 46 teeth of 80 patients. A placebo photoactivated to be used in each of these teeth will be determined by randomization via second size blocks and 4, in a sealed envelope will be an indication of treatment of the tooth 36, the other treatment applied to the tooth 46. application of photoactivated placebo quarters will be isolated with cotton rolls and agents applied around the tooth and gingiva (collar 1 to 2 mm) with the aid of an applicator tip. The product will immediately light cured with the aid of a curing light for 30 seconds. After curing the placebo, the clamp 26 is positioned with a door-clip forceps to check the adjustment of the same, this time the pain of the risk will be assessed through a dichotomous scale prevalence, and intensity will be assessed using different scales ( range of facial expression Wong-Baker, numerical 11 points and observational FLACC). The application of resin sealant is first carried out on the tooth 36. After isolation with a rubber dam, the enamel surface is etched with 37% phosphoric acid for 30 seconds, followed by washing with water and drying the surface with compressed air. The resin sealant is applied and light cured for 40 seconds. The same procedure will be performed on tooth 46.
Children 8 to 12 years with good general and oral health; the teeth 36 and 46 should be fully erupted and have sealant indication.
Teeth that are unerupted or carious lesions that require restoration; also a history of allergy patients are excluded; any form of sensitivity or allergic reaction to anesthetics and ester-based components of the formula; severe systemic disease patients not controlled as heart problems; neurological; kidney; liver or blood and even patients not employees.
Expected outcome: Number of patients reporting pain during the placement of a staple for absolute isolation after application of a topical anesthetic photoactivated through self-report. This number will be transformed into percentage of patients with pain and is called absolute risk of pain.
Expected outcome: The pain of the risk will be assessed by dichotomous scale (yes or no) and will be presented as mean and standard deviation.
Results of cranial Mobilization in functional Strabismus and craniocervical pain intensity in patients with neck Pain
Results of Mobilization towards laterolateral direction in the sphenobasilar synchondrosis in the Horizontal Heteroporias and pressure Pain threshould in craniocervical region in patients with Neck Pain
Group A (intervention), 25 participants will receive manual mobilization in toward  laterolateral in the skull region synchondrosis sphenobasilar, being repeated in both directions for 10 times this impulse gentle mobilization, with a maximum duration of 2 min, through contact independent Examiner
Volunteers with neck pain; horizontal heterophoria; aged between 18 and 80 years; both sex
volunteers with severe refractive error; strabismus; ocular surgery; Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo; central nervous system diseases; deafness; hearing aids; vascular risk factors; postoperative cervical spine; neoplastic, infectious or inflammatory diseases of the spine; no physiotherapy treatment within the last 6 months
Primary outcome: mean increase in the cranio-cervical pain threshold; through digital algometry by kgf made in the cranial and cervical region; correlation means between the experimental group and the control group before and after the intervention in cranio
Secondary outcome: decreased cervical disability; through cervical disability questionnaire; average correlation between cervical pain and disability before and after 4 weeks of treatment
The effect of combining breastfeeding plus skin-to-skin contact on the BCG vaccination induced pain in term infants: a randomized clinical trial
Breastfeeding in skin-to-skin contact in the management of pain during BCG immunization in infants at term : a randomized clinical trial
The sample consisted by 109 healthy term newborns, admitted to the Rooming HU / USP, between August and September 2015. The sample was randomized into two groups, and 55 were allocated to the Experimental Group and 54 in Control Group. The Experimental Group were placed in skin to skin contact with their mothers, using only a diaper and encouraged to suck the breast. After 5 minutes of breastfeeding, received the BCG vaccine in the right arm as the National Immunization Program protocol. Infants in the Control Group were positioned on the lap of their mothers and after 3 minutes was offered 2 ml of glucose 25% oral solution with the aid of devoid of needle syringe. After two minutes elapse, the BCG vaccine was applied. Infants of the both groups were filmed and monitored with pulse oximetry throughout the procedure and for 5 minutes after administration of the vaccine. The images of the newborn
The infants who meet the following criteria will be included in the study : Internees in rooming unit; Exclusive breastfeeding without medical records of difficulty to handle and sucking the mother
Will be excluded from the study newborns who present : Congenital disease diagnosis of the nervous system malformations or neurological damage established after receiving the BCG vaccination; Fracture diagnosis or established tocotraumatism after receiving the BCG vaccine; and application of the vaccine dose or in non-compliance.
Pain score obtained by applying the scale Premature Infant Pain Profile- Revised ( PIPP -R) every 30 seconds for 3 minutes after administration of the BCG vaccine. For allocation of points that making up the PIPP -R scale, they were raised gestational age of the newborn, the behavioral state, the maximum and minimum heart rates , and the minimum saturation of oxygen, before the painful procedure. After application of the vaccine, every 30 seconds were evaluated variations of maximum heart frequency and minimum oxygen saturation, time in which the newborn kept protruding eyebrows (bulging , formation of folds and above vertical slits and between the eyebrows), the eyes squeezed (squeeze the eyes or bulging eyelids and eyelid folds) and nasolabial folds (elevation and deepening of the nasolabial folds). For each indicator they were assigned scores ranging from zero to three . The final score was calculated by adding the points of the indicators.
Occurrence of adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, coughing, gagging, reflux, oxygen saturation less than 80 %, the heart rate lower than 80 bpm or greater than 200 bpm , among others, observed in the range of 180 seconds after administration of vaccine.
Comparative analysis of the single photon diagnostic  tecnology (Spect/CT), with radiopharmaceutical application of Ecdg-99mTc , and computed tomography (CT)- in patients with Lung Cancer.
A phase III study comparing the accuracy of Ecdg 99mTc SPECT/CT against CT for the diagnosis and staging of subjects with clinical and radiological  evidence  consistent with a diagnosis of lung cancer
One group (intra-subject evaluation), 80 patients diagnosed with lung cancer will be recruited and subjected to reviews of new method of image reference method for comparing the staging of the disease.

CT (computed tomography) scans with contrast of 80 patients will be used as a control for comparative evaluation of new diagnostic method.
Male or female subject with at least 18 years of age.  Women may not be pregnant or breast-feeding, and, for those in post-menopausal, the minimum period shall be 12 months for natural process, or 6 months in surgical cases. Agree to adhere to one of the birth control methods (contraceptives) as proposed protocol. Have evidence of lung cancer or CT study results consistent with a diagnosis of lung cancer. Not be receiving cancer treatment (surgery, radiotherapy and / or chemotherapy) or if the person has had lung cancer in the past, all previous therapy should have completed at least 3 months prior to the inclusion in the study. Must have a score in the instrument Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) less than or equal to 2. Present satisfactory laboratory values (l alanine aminotransferase less than or equal to 2.5 x ULN,  aspartate aminotransferase less than or equal  to 2.5 x ULN; less than or equal  to 2.5 x ULN; bilirubin less than or equal to 2.0 x ULN) 
If there are any clinically relevant safety concerns (laboratory, ECG, physical examination, other) which, in the opinion of the investigator, put the subject in unnecessary risk if the subject were to participate. If, in the last 3 months, the patient has been submitted to any treatment for Cancer (radiation therapy, surgery or chemotherapy). Diabetic patient with insulin dependency. Weight limit higher than recommended by SPECT / CT and CT table. Known hypersensitivity to ECDG or contrast, or other compound, including any of the inactive ingredients. Pregnancy or suspected pregnancy, lactation, or planned pregnancy (male and female partners). Clinically significant mental illness that compromises the conduct of the study (which should be determined by the investigator).
Considering the limitations of the exam currently standardized in SUS (CT), which does not measure an increase in metabolism of the glycolytic pathway in lung cancer non-small cell, it is expected that the proposed method shows satisfactory sensitivity to detect metabolic alterations associated with lung cancer non-small cell and to present a better performance in both diagnostic parameters as staging when compared to the DCCT. The primary outcome for this study will be the sensitivity of SPECT / CT, calculated from the gold standard (primary malignant lesions). The sensitivity of the tests SPECT / CT is calculated to get the proportion of individuals who test positive in the study population and that have the primary malignant neoplastic lesion (biopsy) using the formula: Sensitivity = True Positive / (True Positive + False Negative) . Exam Result (SPECT / CT): Positive (Standard gold- Malignant Lesion - True Positive); Negative (Standard gold- Malignant Lesion - False Negative). Primary outcome - a sensitivity greater than 90% (95 ± 5%), when compared to the gold standard.  
The analysis of the secondary outcome is presented by the specificity of SPECT examinations / TC to be calculated to get the proportion of individuals with negative test in the study population and not having the neoplastic lesion (primary and secondary) malignant (clinical and radiological follow-up ) using the formula: specificity = true negative / (true negative + false positive).Test Result (SPECT / CT): positive (standard gold-malignant lesion - true positive) / (injury not maligna- false positive); negative (standard gold-malignant lesion - false negative)) / (injury not true negative maligna-). The sensitivity of the DCCT tests will be calculated to get the proportion of individuals who test positive in the study population who possess the malignant neoplastic lesion using the formula: Sensitivity = True Positive / (True Positive + False Negative). The specificity of the DCCT tests will be calculated to get the proportion of individuals with negative test in the study population and who are not malignant neoplastic lesion using the formula: Specificity = True Negative / (True Negative + False Positive). The positive and negative predictive values, and accuracy ROC curve of SPECT / CT will also be calculated and compared to the values found with the DCCT (CT Diagnosis Contrast). Secondary outcome -a sensitivity and specificity compared with the DCCT and gold reference standard, considered above 90% (= 95% + / - 5%) to 75% (= 80% + / - 5%) respectively validated by standard gold study.
Physiotherapy in patients of abdominal surgery.
Effects of preoperative physiotherapy in cardiorespiratory conditions and physical functioning of patients undergoing upper abdominal surgery. 
The patients will be allocated in the preoperative period to: intervention group (Arm 1) or control group (Arm 2). Arm 1: Patients are undergoing preoperative physiotherapy for 2 weeks (minimum) to 3 weeks (maximum) before surgery. The preoperative physiotherapy includes respiratory muscle training (15minutes), walking (10minutes), deep respiratory exercise, huff, cough and global exercises (30minutes), twice a week, with the physiotherapist. Moreover, it is recommended the respiratory muscle training (15minutes) and walk (10 minutes), at home, four times a week, without supervision (in different days of supervisioned physiotherapy). Arm 2: Preoperative physiotherapy is not performed in the subjects. 
Postoperative physiotherapy: all patients are undergoing the same protocol of supervisioned physiotherapy, once a day, in the first seven days after surgery (or until discharge, if hospitalization time less than seven days after the operation). The protocol (45minutes) includes: deep respiratory exercise, huff, cough, arms exercises, legs exercises, exit of bed and walk (around 5 to 10 minutes). It is recommended that the patient repeat the postoperative exercise protocol , once again the day, without the presence of the physiotherapist.
Patients with over 40 years of age.
Scheduling of upper abdominal surgery elective (including surgery of  esophagus, stomach or biliary tract surgery).
Patients with cerebrovascular or neuromuscular disease.
Patients on immunosuppressive therapy before surgery.
Pulmonary function (spirometry) including vital capacity, forced vital capacity, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, expiratory  forced flow peak . Measures expressed in absolute (liters or liters/second) and % of predicted. Timepoint: Baseline (at inclusion in the study), 24 hours before surgery, within first 24 hours after surgery, seven days after surgery (or at discharge, if hospitalization time less than seven days after the operation) and thirty days after surgery.
Length of stay of patients in hospital according to medical records, expressed in days. Timepoint: Thirty days after surgery.
Walking training with body weight support system on mobile and fixed surfaces in children with cerebral palsy who have gait impaired.
Partial body weight support system in fixed and mobile surface for walking training in subjects with locomotor system impaired 
Group I: Children with cerebral palsy who conduct training walking with partial body weight support on mobile surface (treadmill) for 18 sessions (3 training sessions per week for 6 weeks). In the first two weeks, each session will be approximately 10-20 minutes (depending of the child impairment), and, from the third week of training, each session will be approximately 30 to 45 minutes, with rest intervals when needed.
Group I: Children with cerebral palsy who conduct training walking with partial body weight support on mobile fixed surface (ground) for 18 sessions (3 training sessions per week for 6 weeks). In the first two weeks, each session will be approximately 10-20 minutes (depending of the child impairment), and, from the third week of training, each session will be approximately 30 to 45 minutes, with rest intervals when needed.
Children aged 4 to 10 years; Diagnosis of hemiplegic or diplegic cerebral palsy; No cognitive, visual and verbal impairment that can interfere with the performance of tasks;Be classified between levels II and IV of the Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) for Cerebral Palsy.
Have be submitted to surgical procedures in the last 12 months before the start of training sessions
Increased range of motion of the hip, knee and ankle assessed by kinemetry,
Motor function improvements reflected in higher scores in Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM; Increased in propulsion force during gait assessed by two force plates positioned in the center of the walkway where the subjects will walk during the gait  evaluation.
Cohort study of children born in Campinas and Paulínia-SP 
Cohort study of children born in Campinas and Paulínia-SP 
Observational study whose methodology is the application of epidemiological questionnaires and collecting blood sample. Will be included in the present study 100,000 pregnant women over the age of 15 who live in  Campinas and Paulínia cities, state of São Paulo, that perform the prenatal care in primary healthcare units/SUS located in these cities
It will be eligible for this study pregnant women in the first trimester of pregnancy, user  of one of the 63 Public  Health Center Services /  Basic Health Unit/SUS located in Campinas City, São Paulo, Brazil
Additionally, it will be included pregnant women in the first trimester of pregnancy, user of one service among  9 Public Health Centers /  Basic Health UNIT / SUS located in Paulínia City , São Paulo, Brazil
Pregnant women in late pregnancy, who did not answered the epidemiological questionnaire and did not participate with the peripheral blood collection.
Pregnant women who do not perform prenatal care in the Public Basic Health Units / SUS located in the Cities of Campinas and Paulinia.
Annual analysis between environmental exposure x child's illness and adolescents ( approximately 30-40 % of pediatric diseases are related to environmental factors ) . It will be held the correlation method between the detected local diseases and environmental factors , such as: contaminated water, lack of adequate sanitation , air pollution , disease vectors , contamination with chemicals , among others.
Proposals will be made in order to minimize exposure impacts and improve the quality of life of children and adolescents.
Evaluation of the use of laser for treatment in children
Use of antimicrobial Photodynamic Therapy as an adjunct in reducing microorganisms of the oral cavity
 The same teeth wil be the case and control once the aim of this resarch is to detect the microorganisms reduction after appling a laser wir lower power (antimicrobial photodinamic therapy  _aPDT).  So in the same teeth we will observe this alteration from de moment 1 (M1) after dental caries removal and in moment 2 (M2) after dental caries removal associated to the TFDa application. For it, 25 teeth from 25 children (only one teeth will be evaluated for each children do avoid cluster effect) will have their deep caries lesion treated under conventional procediments: local anestesia, isolation of the operative field with a rubber dam and he removal of carious dentin surface demineralized necrotic and not subject to remineralization will be held with drill at low rpm under cooling with sterile saline. The removal of decayed tissue will start by the side walls and later on the pulp wall where will be held the first sampling with spoon sterile dentine (M1). After this time, The photosensitizer (0.01% methylene blue) will be applied and maintained within the cavity for 5 minutes and the ntervention with aPDT will be applied (9J / 100mW) for 90 seconds, at a central point of the cavity and a second dentin sample will be collected at point adjacent to the site of the first collection and Similarly,  with spoon dentine (M2). Finally, the cavity will be restored with adhesive system and composite resin. Than the microbiological analyzes will be conducted.
Children between 3 and 12 years of age with primary or permanent molars having active  deep caries lesion and without pulp involvement
Children whose guardians refused to sign the informed consent document; children who do not cooperate with the clinical examination; with syndromes or chronic systemic diseases; teeth with painful symptoms consistent with irreversible pulpitis or mobility; periodontal changes; roots with pathological resorption; cases of primary teeth roots in advanced stage of physiological resorption and patients who have made use of any antibiotics during the study period or within three months before its initiation.
The expected outcome is to obtain clinical success, achieving the reduction of microorganisms. We will collect dentin sample before and after the treatment (TFDa). Seven days after sample processing, we will done the colony forming units (CFU) count in these two moments. After applying appropriate statistical tests we will compare the frequency reduction of microorganisms related to the onset and progression of caries as microorganisms total, total Streptococcus, Streptococcus mutans and Lactobacillus.
The secondary expected outcome is the reduction of microorganisms unrelated to the initiation and development of dental caries but in several studies are also found in carious lesions such as Candida and the Enterococcus faecalis. We also will collect dentin sample before and after the treatment (TFDa). Seven days after sample processing, we will done the colony forming units (CFU) count in these two moments. After applying appropriate statistical tests we will compare the frequency reduction of these microorganisms.
Quantity of injuries, heat stress and physiotherapy in triathlon athletes after competition of middle and long distance
Epidemiology of injuries, heat stress and physiotherapy in triathlon athletes after competition of middle and long distance
Experimental group: 40 athletes will receive massage on quadriceps during seven minutes. All participants will receive the same kind of massage.
Control group: 40 athletes will not receive treatment, they will rest during seven minutes. 
Athletes aged between 18 and 55 years; of both gender; they must complete triathlon
Presence of excoriation in the thigh area; perform other intervention to change to the sensitivity as cryotherapy, analgesic or anesthetic on site assessment;  presence of neurological or musculoskeletal disease that interferes or contraindicate the procedures for intervention and/or measurement; metabolic and severe breathing disorders; cramps during the assessment procedures or intervention.
Participants will be assessed before massage or rest, and immediately after them.  Alteration of quadriceps pain, assessed by pressure algometer and check the pressure threshold where there is a change of feeling pressure to painful sensation. Three points will be measured in the thigh (belly of the rectus femoris, vastus lateralis, vastus medialis) 
Reduction of pain and fatigue measured by visual analogue scale. It will be solicitated to participants a score of 0-10 for their pain and fatigue, which 0 is no pain and no fatigue, and 10 is the worst pain ever felt tired and maximum.
Knowledge about healthy habits and risk factors for cardiovascular diseases a group of students
Knowledge about Healthy Habits and Risk Factors for Cardiovascular Disease in a Group of Children 4 The 5th Series of Elementary School
The sample consisted of 79 children aged 7 to 11 years were randomized into two groups. For randomization generates a table with random numbers by a researcher who did not belong to the study, these figures were placed in envelopes and sealed brown color and then these envelopes were opened by an investigator who was not in the study by defining what would be the control group and intervention group. Intervention group: 40 children participated in eight weekly workshops playful with time between 30 and 60 minutes for two months. The first two interventions were based on collage of pictures of food and activities directed to health was considered good for heart health and bad. The third workshop was based on the painting of healthy foods and the fourth of unhealthy foods. The fifth and sixth workshop was aimed at creating a memory game consisting of pictures of healthy and unhealthy and figures of children performing physical exercise. The seventh workshop was conducted with the use of music where it stimulated the exercises and dances. In the eighth workshop is set up a table with healthy and unhealthy child and each won two hearts one smiling and one sad and it was requested that the food presented as they showed the heart happy and sad to healthy foods for unhealthy ones. After the end of each workshop took place guidelines on the importance of healthy practices for heart health. Control group: 39 children placed received no intervention during this period.
Children aged 7 to 11 years old.
Authorization from parents.
Children under seven years.
children over 11 years.
It can be observed that there was no significant difference in knowledge before intervention between groups, the groups showed an average nine hits in an instrument of 12 questões.Após interventions was no significant difference in the intervention group with p <0.005.
There was an increase in physical activity in both groups but not being statistically significant p = 0.006.  Decreased percentile in the Intervention group but not statistically significant with p = 0.158. With average standard deviation of 70.9 ± 27.3 before and after 69.9 ± 26.3  The control group showed increased percentile when measured after intervenção.Com mean and standard deviation before and after 62.0 ± 32.3 63.9 ± 30.2  .
The melatonin analgesic effect in a human pain model 
The melatonin analgesic effect in a human nociceptive and inflammatory pain model. 
In this study we
Healthy volunteers;
Age between 18 and 45 years;
Current acute or chronic pain conditions;
Pregnancy;
Increase in pressure pain threshold in healthy volunteers measured by pressure algometer. IIt is expected a decrease in pain in melatonin groups in a dose dependent way.
Increase sedation levels measured by visual analogue scale. It is expected that the melatonin use increase the sedation levels in a dose-dependent way.
Association of compounds as an alternative for the treatment of tooht with hypersensitivity
Association of monomers as an alternative for the treatment of dentin hypersensitivity: a randomized clinical trial
In this interventional split-mouth study, each participant receives the two interventions, since randomization units are areas of the patient
Individuals healthy ; both genders; aged between 18 and 80 years; with clinical symptoms dentin hypersensitivity two permanent; teeth in different quadrants; with exposed cemento-enamel junction; without cavitation at the clinical examination
Tooht with carious lesions; defective restorations; erosion; post-operative sensitivity after periodontal treatment or bleaching; bruxism; pulpitis; root fracture; or other conditions that may cause or predispose to the development of dentin hypersensitivity; individuals with special; needs or cognitive impairment compromising data collection; minors (
Remission of painful symptoms compatible with dentine hypersensitivity over one year of monitoring, verified through visual analog scale, from the pain reduction finding to levels indicative of mild pain (scores <=3) 
There are expected secondary results
Elderly health of the organization in public health in Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil
Matricial in elderly health in primary health of Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil
The intervention will be the elderly health of matricial registered in the Family- ESF Health Strategy, ie organize the health service in caring for people aged more than sixty years, attending public health municipality located in northern Minas Gerais, Brazil, after evaluation of the elderly before and after the training health professionals who provide care to older people in the FHS.
Experimental group: 760 elderly enrolled in the Family-ESF Health Strategy, in Montes Claros, Minas Gerais, Brazil, which will be submitted the application questionnaire on general health for fragility risk stratification, together with training for professionals who follow these elderly in their respective family health teams. After 6 months to a year will be made new evaluation by the elderly to assess the impact of a matricial model of health of the elderly in the FHS.
age between 60 and 115 years; elderly enrolled and followed in the Family Health Strategy; both genders.
inability to respond to the evaluation questionnaires.
Organization of care for the elderly by matricial health of the elderly in the Family Health Strategy.
Reducing the vulnerability of the functional capacity of older people through the Clinical and Functional Vulnerability Index (IVCF-20) from a 10% variation in measurements pre and post-intervention.  
Effects of a Home Physical Exercise Program, with Monitoring every 15 Days, on Sleep Quality of the Elderly: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Effects of a Non-Supervised and Guided Home Physical Exercise Program on Elderly Sleep Quality: A Randomized Clinical Trial
The home physical exercise program is based on the recommendations of the American College of Sports Medicine for exercise and physical activity with the elderly [23]. The program consisted of a combination of aerobic exercises, muscle strengthening, balance, coordination and flexibility, prioritizing exercises involving large muscle groups, predicted duration of 12 consecutive weeks, minimum frequency of 3 weekly sessions, estimated time of execution of 40 minutes and 2-3 series with 5 to 15 repetitions for each exercise at a target stress rate of 13-15 (
Resides in the urban area of the municipality of Senhor do Bonfim-Ba, is 60 years of age or older, has not exercised regularly for at least three months prior to the study, score less than or equal to 5 on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI-BR) and did not present a high risk of obstructive sleep apnea (OSAS) indicated by positivity in two or three categories of the Berlin Clinical Questionnaire.

Participants with cognitive decline according to the Mental State Mini-Exam will be excluded from the study, they will be performing some treatment for sleep disorder (including the use of sleeping pills more than once a week) and present any Clinical condition that contraindicates the performance of physical activity, identified through a medical and physiotherapeutic evaluation.
Improvement of the self-reported quality of sleep, as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), based on the findings of reductions in the overall score and in each of the seven components of this questionnaire, measured before the beginning of the study, and After 12 weeks of intervention.
Improvement of daytime sleepiness, verified by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, based on the finding of a reduction in the overall scoring score, measured before the beginning of the study and after 12 weeks of intervention.
Assessment of the pain level  of Benzathine Benzylpenicillin administered in the region ventrogluteal (hip) vs. dorsogluteal
Assessment of acceptance of intramuscular injection of penicillin in the region ventral gluteal in emergency units in Goiânia - Goiás
Sixty one subjects were recruited from use of Benzilpenicina G Benzathine (Benzetacil) intramuscularly. Thirty one people in the intervention group received the drug in the ventral gluteal or hip region. already in the control group 30 people received the gluteal back region.
In the i
Present the prescription of Benzylpenicillin; be over 18 years old; be served in the medication room of two  Centro de Atendimento Integrais a Saúde (CAIS) of the eastern region of Goiânia.
Have an injury on the skin or muscles of the buttock; present prescription of procaine penicillin associated with Benzylpenicillin; have psychiatric disorders.
Application acceptance of Benzetacil in ventrogluteal region or hip performed through the graduated numerical scale from zero to ten, which zero means no pain and ten the worst imaginable pain.
The pain intensity reported by the subject application site of intramuscular injection. Verified by assessment of pain using the graduated numerical scale from zero to ten, which zero means no pain and ten the worst imaginable pain. After the injection was carried out the assessment at the time giving the injection, after one minute and three minutes under the supervision of researchers.
Assessment of Cardiovascular Risk  and Inflammatory Markers in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis
Assessment of Oxidative Stress, Cardiovascular Risk Factors and Metabolic Syndrome Frequency in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients
Cross-sectional study in 200 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Medical consultations were carried out for determination of weight, height, waist circumference, visual analog scale, number of swollen joints, number of painful joints and various laboratory tests for insulin resistance study, inflammation and oxidative stress. The main objective of the study is to evaluate the involvement of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and insulin resistance in inflammation, oxidative stress and disease activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis who meet the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology 2010.

Patients with other autoimmune diseases, kidney, heart, liver, diabetes, acute or chronic infectious diseases; use of metformnas and statins, supplements with antioxidant activity.
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis and insulin resistance have increased disease activity as measured by the Disease Activity Score 28 joints (DAS28); inflammatory process at a higher intensity, measured by ESR, C-reactive protein and serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha ; and unfavorable redox status assessed by advanced oxidation protein products, plasma total antioxidant capacity when compared to patients with rheumatoid arthritis without insulin resistance.
Patients taking anti tumor necrosis factor had higher plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor therapy than those who did not use.
Effect of training in vibrating plataform in subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Effect of whole-body vibration training in subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
The intervention used in this study is the physical training of the whole body vibration. For this, the study will include three groups, namely:
Vibration group: composed by 25 subjects with COPD, who will perform the squat exercise on presence of the whole body vibration;
75 subjects of both genders; with stable COPD; age between 45 and 80 years; women after menopause.
Acute or chronic associated disease not stable; included in  some form of physical training; use of antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive medications.
Increase of functional capacity, checked by the six-minute walk test, from the observation of increase of walking distance at least 60 meters after training.
Reducing the inflammatory response, verified by reduced plasma concentrations of cytokines by ELISA technique; increased muscle strength of the lower limbs, measured by reducing the time spent on the test sitting and standing chair; improved of the agility, measured by reducing the time spent on the Timed get up and go test; improved quality of life, measured by the reduction of the score Saint George questionnaire. There is no consensus in the literature about the values about these variables that show the expected improvements using the proposed intervention (whole body vibration). The results will be evaluated by comparing the pre and post training by performing statistical tests.
Benefit of physiotherapy with semi-supervised training of dual task in motor performance and cognitive for people with Parkinson
Effectiveness of physiotherapy with semi-supervised training of dual task in motor performance and cognitive for people with Parkinson
Control Group (GC) and Experimental (GE) shall consist of 10 individuals in the early stages of Parkinson
Individuals of both sexes; aged 40 to 70 years; diagnosed with Parkinson
Other neurological disorders as heart disease and / or severe cognitive impairment that could affect the understanding and / or to indicate the completion of the exercise.
Improved cognitive-motor clinical condicion, verified by standardized rating scales on the disease progression (UPDRS - Scale Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating), cognition (MMSE - Mini Mental State Examination and MoCA - Montreal Cognitive Scale), balance (Berg scale), mobility (get up and go test without and with tasks associated), functional independence (PAS - Parkinson activity scale) and time to perform simple tasks and doubles. From the observation of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post measurements intervention is contact that the outcome occurred.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Influence of Captopril use on Blood Pressure Response Measured After a Single Bout of Strength Exercise in Men with High Blood Pressure
Effect of Captopril use on Blood Pressure Response After a Single Bout of Resistance Exercise in Hypertensive Men
Groups: normotensives and hypertensives
Normotensives: Evaluated without any teraphy
Men. Aged between 30 and 60 years. Non smokers. Physically inactives (did not perform physical activity more than twice a week). Normotensives and hypertensives will form different groups. Hypertensives should not have end organ damage or secondary causes of hypertension according to the diagnotic rotine of the Hypertension League of Clinical Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, USP.
Subjects with obesity (body mass index equal or greater than 30 kg/m2). Subjects with diabetes (fasting glycemia equal or greater than 126 mg/dl). Subjects with cardiac diseases (previous diagnosis or alteration on resting or exercise ECG). Subjects who do not tolerate the study medication.
post-exercise hypotension - evaluated by the measurement of clinic (auscultatory) and ambulatorial (oscillometric) blood pressure before and after rest and resistance exercise while receiving placebo and captopril.
Vascular function - evaluated by the measurement of baseline blood flow and its response to the reactive hyperemia maneuver (venous occlusion pletismography) performed before and after rest and resistance exercise while receiving placebo and captopril.
Evaluation of lower limb motor function and balance between 2 rehabilitation protocols using the technique of Used Forced Therapy  at post stroke
Functional and stabilometric correlates between two Forced Use Therapy protocols in lower limb rehabilitation of patients with Chronic Hemiparesis Post-Stroke
Forced use therapy, conventional physiotherapy, 3 groups.
Balance evaluation, speed, gait performance and activation of the anterior tibialis muscle.
Subjects post stroke; 18 until 90years; good cognition; no joint locks; good range of motion in the arm with a minimum of 20 ° of active wrist extension and 10 ° at the metacarpophalangeal joint; ability to walk without assistance.
Sample Target: 36 subjects
Subjects with: cardiac arrhythmias; uncontrolled hypertension;  severe cardiovascular problems;  severe breathing and inability to attend the sessions.
Expected outcome: Balance improvement verified by examining stabilometry held on the force platform, with the analysis of these data is expected to centralization of COP (center of pressure). Expected outcome: Improved recruitment of the tibialis anterior muscle verified by examining surface electromyography, with the analysis of these data is expected to increase in the RMS (Root Mean Square). Expected outcome: Improved march in the item speed, measured in seconds and distance covered, measured in meters, checked through the 10-meter and 6-minute walk test, with the analysis of these data is expected to decrease in run time the test 10 meters and increasing the distance covered in a 6-minute walk test.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Effects of metformin at high pressure and mild hypothyroidism
Non antihyperglycemic effects of metformin on blood pressure and subclinical hypothyroidism
Experimental group: 24 individuals between 18 and 65 years with subclinical hypothyroidism, will use metformin 850 mg twice daily for a period of three months.
Control group: 24 individuals between 18 and 65 years with subclinical hypothyroidism, will use  placebo twice daily for a period of three months.
Volunteers of both sexes; aged between 18 and 65; with TSH greater than the upper limit of normal for the method in two steps, the first by any method and the second measured by chemiluminescence accompanied by free T4 levels within normal limits.
Previous diagnosis of type 2 diabetes; use of levothyroxine; contraindications to the use of metformin; known abnormal liver function; heart failure NYHA III-IV despite optimal drug therapy; serious mental illness; any terminally ill; malignancy not cured or in treatment; contrast studies in the last three months; use of medications known to interfere with thyroid function.
Down 0.5 microUI / mL in TSH levels measured by chemiluminescence.
Proportion of patients achieving euthyroid state, checked by normalizing the TSH levels.
Evaluation of granular Brazil-nut in the treatment of hypertensive and dyslipidemic.
Effect of the supplementation with granular Brazil-nut in the microcirculation and biomarkers in hypertensive and dyslipidemics subjects.
Intervention group: 125 individuals receive Brazil nut flour for 3 months (14g/dia). Control Group: 125 individuals receive toasted cassava flour flavored for 3 months (10g/day). Individuals will be asked to add the Brazil nut or cassava flour in any meal of the day, once a day. After 30 days from the end of each intervention, individuals exchange group in the study, ie, those who received  Brazil nut flour will receive the toasted cassava flour flavored for over three months.
Hypertensive and dyslipidemic patients between 20 and 100 years old.
Individuals with known food allergy or aversion to the Brazil nut;Pregnant women and nursing mothers,Be making use of dietary supplements containing antioxidant vitamins or minerals,Show untreated thyroid diseases and destabilized,Display chronic renal failure or liver disease, Being in substance use steroids,Show rheumatic heart disease or systemic collagen, Age up to 20 years and older than 100 years
We expect an increase of 12% glutathione peroxidase activity, measured by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay  at the beginning and the end of each treatment step (Brazil nut and placebo)
The secondary endpoint is increased microvascular vasodilatory, measured by the  laser flowmetry speckle technique, a system coupled to a non-invasive drug micro-iontophoresis which evaluates the real time dependent changes in microvascular flow (acetylcholine) endothelium. This examination will take place at the beginning and end of each stage of treatment.
Effects of different types of hydration on the cardiovascular system

Hydration in endurance exercise: effects of different protocols on the variability of heart rate, cardiorespiratory parameters, heart rate recovery and reentry vagal
All study participants underwent the study protocol consisting of four stages, as follows: Step I: consisted of determining the load of exercise to be used in subsequent steps treadmill. The belt load was determined from oxygen consumption (equivalent to 60 % of VO2 peak intensity) and used in other phases of the study; Step II (Control Protocol - PC): the individuals were submitted to 90 minutes of exercise (equivalent intensity 60 % of VO2peak) followed by 60 minutes of recovery without administration of hydration; Step III (Intervention Protocol 1 - PH1): subjects were submitted to 90 minutes of exercise (equivalent to 60 % of VO2 peak intensity) followed by 60 minutes of recovery, but with water management. The water will be distributed in 10 equal portions administered at regular 15 minute intervals from 10 minutes of exercise until the end of the recovery period; Stage IV (Intervention Protocol 2 - PH2): subjects underwent 90 minutes of exercise (intensity equivalent to 60 % of VO2peak) followed by 60 minutes of recovery, but with administration of isotonic drink. This solution will be distributed in the same proportion as in PH1.
Healthy volunteers, male, aged between 18 and 30 years; practicing moderate physical activities according to the International Physical Activity Questionnaire - IPAQ
Smokers volunteers, use of medications that affect the autonomic activity of the heart such as beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors; alcoholics; diagnosis of metabolic and/or endocrine known as a diabetes mellitus and dislipedemia example, that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Difference in improving autonomic modulation between the intervention groups and control groups (PC X PH1 X PH2)
Difference in improvement of cardiorespiratory parameters, heart rate recovery and reentry vagal between the intervention groups and control groups (PC X PH1 X PH2)
Influence of exercises performed by physiotherapists in newborns prematuos to improve breathing
Influence of sensorimotor stimulation of the respiratory system of preterm infants
Interventions occur within a hospital setting, Regional Hospital of Mato Grosso do Sul, which authorized the research in care and Intermediate Unit Kangaroo units.

The stimulation protocol sensorimotor, contains therapeutic exercises Baby Bobath method, being used some specific that could contribute to the improvement of respiratory mechanics of preterm infants, as follows: trunk dissociation, kicks and alternating range, feel the head hands, facial stimulation and supine positioning.
Gestational age 28semanas up to 36 weeks and 6 days; hemodynamically stable ; over 72 hours of life ; breathing spontaneously and may or may not be with O2 catheter use; no congenital malformations ; minimum weight of 1,100 grams.
Patients with congenital malformations ; hemodynamically unstable ; intraventricular hemorrhage Peri grade III and / or IV ; weight loss.
The outcome at the end of the study was : Fall respiratory rate after the 15 minutes after the intervention in relation to initial respiratory rate . Fall respiratory rate on the 3rd day of action on the other two days and the value was lower at all times . Increased oxygen saturation at the time immediately after completion of the intervention. There was no change in heart rate . There was no significant change in the Silverman - andersann newsletter. Weight was up .
To check the expected outcome , we use specific parameters that were analyzed , and these , heart rate, respiratory rate , oxygen saturation , silverman - andersann form and weight. As everyone except the weight analyzed before the start of the intervention , immediately after completion and 15 minutes after completion . The weight was checked only daily.  And among the outcomes that was not expected , but we could observe was that as happened to exchange the route of feeding preterm infants , the probe into her womb , occurred a loss of weight as a greater energy expenditure is needed must then exclude the premature newborn research 
Effect of walk back training on the treadmill in locomotion of elderly with osteoarthritis of knee
Effect of gait training back on the treadmill in locomotor function of older adults with osteoarthritis of knee
Intervention group: This group will practice walking backwards on a treadmill, five times a week, for two weeks.
Control Group: this group will practice normal gait training on a treadmill for the same period of the intervention group.
Older adults diagnosed with osteoarthritis, male and female, older than 60 years, presence of pain and stiffness of the knee to at least six months for activities in the standing position, joint pain during passive motion, intermittent swelling, radiographic joint degeneration, and who possess a medical certificate allowing physical activity.
Will be excluded individuals who present systemic rheumatic disease, previous surgery of the lower limbs, making use of orthoses for walking, any other condition that would limit or disable the implementation of proposed activities.
The outcomes of this study will be obtained from the comparison of the variables collected before and after completion of gait training, namely: WOMAC: A quality of life questionnaire specific to the evaluation of patients with osteoarthritis. Kinetic variables: cadence, stride length, comfortable speed of walking, double support phase, the first and second peak force.
There will be secondary outcome
Evaluation of Biomarkers Associated With Response to Subsequent Therapies in Subjects With HER2-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
EGF117165 - A phase II, open-label study to evaluate biomarkers
associated with response to subsequent therapies in subjects
The study will randomize approximately 225 subjects (20 in Brazil) to achieve 50 evaluable subjects in each of the 3 arms. Arm A: Lapatinib 1000mg (4 tablets of 250 mg) orally once daily, plus Trastuzumab (loading dose of 8 mg/kg) followed by a maintenance dose of 6 mg/kg every 3 weeks intravenously. For subjects with hormone receptor (ER and / or PgR) positive, aromatase inhibitor of the investigator´s choice. Arm B: Trastuzumab on the day one of treatment on loading dose of 8 mg/kg followed by maintenance dose of 6 mg/kg intravenously every three week plus chemotherapy of the investigator’s choice. An aromatase inhibitor may be used for hormone receptor positive subjects at the discretion of the investigator. Arm C: Lapatinib 1000mg (4 tablets of 250mg) oraly once daily plus Trastuzumab with loading dose of 8 mg/kg followed by the maintenance dose of 6 mg/kg intravenously every three weeks. For subjects with hormone receptor (ER and/or PgR)-positive, aromatase inhibitor of the investigator’s choice.
During screening, all subjects will have a biopsy of their metastatic disease (pre-treatment biopsy). At disease progression a biopsy should be taken from the same site as the pre-treatment biopsy.
Female equal or more than 18 years; histologically or cytologially confirmed invasive breast cancer with distant metastasis; subjects must have at least one measurable lesion per RECIST 1.1 (Note: biopsied lesions should not be used as target lesions.); HER2 overexpression or gene amplification, in the invasive component of either the primary tumor or metastatic disease site as defined as: 3+ by Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or centrally determined HER2-positive, hormone receptor status, breast molecular subtype by prediction analysis of microarray 50 (PAM50) on the pre-treatment biopsy of metastatic lesion obtained during screening (Note: biopsied lesions should not be used as target lesions.); progression on at least 2 lines of anti-HER2-targeted therapies for metastatic breast cancer (MBC); documented radiological disease progression during the most recent treatment regimen for metastatic disease; most recent treatment regimen for metastatic disease must include Trastuzumab and chemotherapy (Note: Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is considered acceptable as prior Trastuzumab/chemotherapy regimen); agreement to provide 2 tumor biopsies; prior treatment with pertuzumab, Lapatinib, and/or Trastuzumab emtansine is allowed. However, the last treatment for MBC must not include Trastuzumab in combination with pertuzumab; subjects with radiographically stable central nervous system (CNS) metastases, defined as radiographically stable on the previous 2 brain imaging scans, asymptomatic, and off systemic steroids and anticonvulsants for at least 1 month are eligible; treatment with prophylactic anticonvulsants is permitted unless listed under prohibited medications; discontinuation of all prior chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or biological therapy at least 3 weeks prior to the first dose of investigational product is required (Note: discontinuation of Trastuzumab is not necessary); all treatment related toxicities, except alopecia, must have recovered to grade 1 or better (common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 4.0) prior to administration of the first dose of study treatment; baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) equal or more than 50% as measured by echocardiogram (ECHO) or Multigated acquisition (MUGA) and above the testing institution
Lactating female (Note: women with potential to have children must be willing to practice acceptable methods of birth control during the study); bone-only disease and/or disease that cannot be biopsied; unstable CNS metastases or leptomeningeal carcinomatosis not considered radiographically stable (Note: subjects with radiographically stable CNS metastases are defined as radiographically stable on the previous 2 brain imaging studies, asymptomatic, and off systemic steroids and anticonvulsants for at least 1 month; treatment with prophylactic anticonvulsants is permitted unless listed under prohibited medications); any serious and/or unstable pre-existing medical, psychiatric disorder, or other conditions including concurrent disease that could interfere with subject
Evaluate changes in biomarkers between pre-treatment biopsy and disease progression biopsy (changes in gene and/or protein expression of pre-specified biomarkers associated with HER family, immunomodulation, apoptosis and ABC transporters).
Overall response rate (ORR); clinical benefit rate (CBR); progression-free survival (PFS); overall survival (OS); PFS on first next line (PFS-NL); determination of changes in biomarkers and PFS, PFS-NL and OS; safety and tolerability of Trastuzumab in combination with Lapatinib and of Trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy; changes in molecular subtype determined by PAM50 assay; changes in patient reported outcomes (PRO). Results summary of health related quality of life (HRQOL) questionnaire like functional assessment of cancer therapy - breast (FACT-B) and multidimensional assessment of fatigue (MAF) scales for each arm.
Assessment of health around implants in patients rehabilitated with Removable or Fixed  Prostheses on Implants
Peri Implant Health Assessment in patients rehabilitated with Overdentures and Full-arch Fixed Prosthesis

Patients were divided into two groups. Participants in the control group were rehabilitated with overdenture on two implants with bar clip retention system. A total of 50 patients were followed and evaluated in periods of 3 months, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months since  prosthesis on the implants installation. Biofilm index in the implant and mini pillar, bleeding index, degree of peri-implant inflammation, keratinized mucosa range, probing depth and level of the margin of the mucosa were evaluated by means of visual inspection by calibrated examiner and millimeter periodontal probe to perform measurements and peri-implant probing. Participants in the test group were rehabilitated with fixed dentures implant about 4 or 5 implants. A total of 50 patients  were followed and evaluated in periods of 3 months, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months since the installation of the prosthesis on the implants. Biofilm index in the implant and mini pillar, bleeding index, degree of peri-implant inflammation, keratinized mucosa range, probing depth and level of the margin of the mucosawere evaluated by means of visual inspection by calibrated examiner and millimeter periodontal probe to perform measurements and peri-implant probing.
Bimaxillary edentulous; use of double dentures for at least one year; rehabilitation with conventional denture bimaxillary in UFRN; sufficient bone height for implant placement of at least 9,00mm in the mandibular arch.
Diabetes; smoking; osteoporosis; immune deficiency or anticoagulant therapy; patients with neurological diseases.
Increased mucositis rate in the test group compared to the control group after 01 years and 05 years of evaluation, verified through the evaluation of peri-implant sites with millimeter periodontal probe, from a finding of a variation of at least 20% in pre- and post-intervention measurements.
Loss of implants in patients of test and control groups after 01 years of assessment, verified by periapical radiographs, from the observation of non-osseointegration of the implant measurements in pre and post intervention.
Muscular Electrical Stimulation after Cardiac Surgery
Neuromuscular Electrostimulation in the Postoperative of Cardiac Surgery: a randomized clinical trial
- Control Groups

42 patients (21 after valve replacement surgery and 21 postoperative coronary artery bypass graft) will be subjected to conventional physical therapy protocol performed by hospital physiotherapists twice daily, in the morning and afternoon. The physiotherapy treatment protocol will be adopted by the hospital and included: breathing exercises (respiratory patterns), pulmonary re-expansion maneuvers, bronchial hygiene techniques, postural drainage, metabolic exercises, walking up and down stairs, active-assisted therapeutic exercise and active upper and lower limbs, muscle stretching. The exercises will follow the guidelines in accordance with the Brazilian Guidelines for Cardiovascular Rehabilitation (1997).
Will be included in the study cardiac patients of both sexes; aged between 18 and 75 years old who are hospitalized for surgical treatment of Myocardial Revascularization and Valve exchange; being allocated to different groups.
Patients with some type of psychiatric condition; cognitive decline or dementia that could influence the communication process; the presence of musculoskeletal disorder or neuromuscular recent or unresolved that limits or precludes the ability to walk; mobility or functional capacity; hemodynamic instability (Mean Arterial Pressure 
Increase in the average distance walked in the experimental group compared to the control group checked by the 6-minute walking test (6MWT) from the realization of a range of at least 30 meters between the groups.
- Reducing the blood lactate response to exercise in the experimental group compared to the control group checked by lactimetria from the finding of a significant statistical variation between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improves muscle strength for knee extension verified by digital dynamometer from the finding of a significant statistical variation between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improves muscle strength to hand grip verified by dynamometer  from the realization of a significant statistical variation between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improved overall muscle strength verified by the MRC scale (Medical Research Council) from the finding of a significant statistical variation between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improved electrical activity of the rectus femoris muscle, verified by analysis of surface electromyography signal from the finding of a significant statistical variation in RMS variable (room mean square) between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improved functionality verified by total score and motor fields in the questionnaire and cognitive FIM (Functional Independence Measure) from the finding of a significant statistical variation between groups with 5% significance level.  - Improved quality of life questionnaire verified by NHP (Nottingham Health Profile) from finding statistically significant difference (p <0.05) between the control and experimental groups.  - Increased walking speed in the experimental group compared to the control group verified through Gait Speed Test 10 meters from the finding of a statistically significant difference between groups (p <0.05).  - Maintenance of vital signs (blood pressure - BP;  Heart Rate - HR, saturation of hemoglobin - SpO2 and respiratory rate - RR) by applying a neuromuscular electrical stimulation session verified by noninvasive monitoring at the bedside from the finding of a maintenance of these clinical parameters in physiological normal values, or absence of: variation of BP, HR and RR> 20%, arrhythmias and changes> 4-5% in SpO2.
Evaluation of the Impact of neuromodulators on urinary, intestinal and sexual functions and on spasticity in spinal cord injured individuals
Impact of lumbosacral plexus stimulation by means of laparoscopically implanted eletrodes on urinary, intestinal and vasomotor functions and on lower limb and pelvic floor spasticity and sleep quality in spinal cord injured individuals
Study group: 20 persons with traumatic spinal cord injury will receive the neuromodulator implant on the sciatic, pudendal and femoral nerves laparoscopically and two weekly sessions of motor physical therapy and one weekly session of pelvic floor physiotherapy for 12 months. Control group: 20 persons with traumatic spinal cord injury receive only the two weekly sessions of physical therapy and a weekly session of pelvic floor physiotherapy, 12 months
Individuals aging 18 to 60 years, with partial or complete spinal cord injury ASIA (American Spinal Injury Association) score A or B, in clean intermitent self-catheterization and/or with urinary incontinence and neurologically stable for more than one year.
Subjects with the following characteristics will be excluded:  urodynamic bladder atonia; suspicion of vesicoureteral reflux prior to the spinal cord injury;	Diabetes Mellitus, compensated or not;	congenital or acquired immunodeficiency; known or suspected malignancy; history of rectossigmoidectomy, colectomy, or other gastrointestinal surgeries that can cause changes in bowel habits, stool anal continence or function; history of surgical treatment of uterovaginal prolapse, urinary incontinence, bladder augmentation procedures or other procedures associated with dysfunctional voiding (urethrotomy etc.); history of prostatectomy, transurethral resection of the prostate or prostatic other invasive procedures except biopsy; history of central or peripheral procedures neuroablative as rizotomy, cordotomy etc.;	uterovaginal prolapse, rectal or urethral;	cystostomy; anal or urethral stenosis.
Increase on maximum cystometric capacity and bladder compliance as assessed by urodynamic study; increase on voided volume and decrease on the number of incontinence episodes and need for bladder catheterization; improvement of quality of life related to bladder function, as assessed by the Qualiveen questionnaire; improvement in spasticity as assessed by the SCATS system (Spinal Cord Assessment Tool for Spastic Reflexes)
Increased rectal sensitivity and capacity evaluated by intrarretal balloon; improvement of pelvic floor muscle function measured by digital palpation and intracavitary electromyography; improved sexual function in men evaluated by International Index of Erectile Function questionnaire, and in women at the Female Sexual Function Index questionnaire; histological changes of the femoral rectus muscles by biopsy; increased active range of motion of the lower limbs and trunk measured by goniometry; changes in patterns of gait and balance evaluated by Barthel scale; improvement in overall sleep quality assessed by the Pittsburgh questionnaire validated Brazilian Portuguese and also of daytime sleepiness measured by the Epworth questionnaire validated for the Brazilian Portuguese; improved body image assessed by testing the Human Figure Drawing.
Genetic monitoring and balance in the redox medical residents occupationally exposed to inhaled anesthetics
Genetic monitoring and redox balance in resident physicians occupationally exposed to inhaled anesthetics
Monitoring semiannual of the subjects by venous blood.
Experimental group: 30 medical residents occupationally exposed to residues of inhaled anesthetics, the beginning of the residence at the end of it, totaling three years of study with gathering held every six months.
First year of medical residency in anesthesiologists areas; general surgery; orthopedics; neurosurgery; healthy volunteers; both genders; aged 18 to 35
Have done medical residence in the areas of interest of the study; Carrier malignancy; be more than 35 years of age
It is expected to find increased DNA damage of participants increases as its exposure through the comet assay in lymphocytes analyzed by fluorescence microscopy images with the aid of a software capable of detecting the intensity of the tail, and the higher the greater the tail damage, besides biochemical and hormonal results and oxidative stress test directly related to DNA damage. We also expect information of anesthetic gases residue concentrations in the operating room to operating rooms still without adequate exhaust system and renewal of air and its possible effects compared to rooms with adequate exhaust system. The results in all tests are comparative between the exposed and control groups for significant difference check.
Are not expected.
Assessment of breathing and exercise capacity of patients with kidney disease that perform breathing exercises
Functional, physiological assessment and nutritional status of individuals in hemodialysis undergoing respiratory kinesiotherapy
Inspiratory muscle training (IMT)

In the experimental group 1, 19 male patients on hemodialysis underwent TMI for six months, three times a week, three sets of 10 repetitions always the first two hours of the session. Each session lasted approximately 10 minutes. For training the patients used a specific unit of Powerbreathe brand. Patients sitting with flexed to 90 degrees or recline the chair HD hip held her breath through a coupled to a manager that has a valve that offers resistance mouthpiece respiratórios.O muscles exercise began with load 30% of maximal inspiratory pressure, being graded according to the load of the correct and complete three sets of 10 repetitions performed at the beginning and as individual progression of each patient execution. At the end of the third month respiratory muscle strength was measured again and adjusted the load. The third to the sixth month of the new undergraduate load was determined considering the correct and full completion of the exercise and the patient
Patients with renal failure performing hemodialysis for over 3 months; aged between 18 and 70 years; males; with medical clearance to be submitted to inspiratory muscle training; Following the training protocol three times per week
Patients with neurological deficit; chronic lung disease; severe heart disease (unstable angina, previous myocardial infarction, cardiac surgery); infectious disease.
Observed - Increase of 37% in inspiratory muscle strength assessed by manometer before and after inspiratory muscle strength 
Observed - Increase inspiratory strength, improve lung function (forced vital capacity), and improve in aspects of quality of life. But oxygen intake was not increased assessment by manometer, spirometry, cardiopulmonary exercise test and Kidney Disease Quality of Life- Short Form before and after inspiratory muscle strength
Effects of noninvasive ventilation after cardiovascular surgery: A Randomized Clinical Trial
Effects of noninvasive mechanical ventilation on the hemodynamic and ventilatory parameters in post-cardiac surgery patients who developed hypoxemia after tracheal extubation
The interventions were performed after inclusion in the study, each subject was submitted to only one intervention, with total duration of four consecutive hours for each patient.

The control group received oxygen therapy by Venturi mask with FiO2 = 0.4 and the intervention group received oxygen (FiO2 = 0.4) and bi-level non-invaisve ventilatio (NIV) with an inspiratory positive airway pressure (IPAP) to generate tidal volume between 5-6mL/kg and expiratory positive airway pressure (EPAP) of 7cmH2O. To ensure that both groups received the same FiO2, the intervention group was monitored with an oxygen analyzer, connected to the oronasal mask and kept at FiO2 = 0.4 for three consecutive hours. 
Postoperative cardiovascular surgery (valve replacement, thoracoabdominal aortic surgery and/or coronary artery bypass graft (CABG);
Sternal incision and pulmonary artery catheter from surgical ward 
Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
Previous neurological disease and inability to understand;
The study hypothesis was that could improve gas exchange (oxygenation index, partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood and arterial oxygen saturation) with the use of bilevel noninvasive ventilation. To evaluate this outcome, we collected blood samples (arterial blood gases) at four time points: baseline, one hour and three hours after the placement of the mask and one hour after stopping the intervention.  
The analysis of hemodynamic variables was made by measuring the pulmonary artery catheter (Swan-Ganz) that was inserted into the surgical ward, via the internal jugular vein. The following variables were measured: heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP), central venous pressure (CVP) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP). To measure the cardiac output (CO), 10ml of saline (0.9%) were injected manually at room temperature and was calculated by the thermodilution curve. All measurements were repeated 4-5 times, excluding outliers and held an average of three measurements. Indirect variables obtained: cardiac index (CI), systolic volume index (SVI), left ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI), right ventricle stroke work index (RVSWI), systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) and pulmonary vascular resistance index (PVRI).  
Cranial electrical current associated with gait training on a treadmill in people who have had a stroke.
Transcranial direct-current stimulation combined with treamill training for Stroke:a randomized, controlled, duble-blind, clinical trial.
Control group: 14 hemiparetic subjects will be submitted to gait training on a treadmill with transcranial stimulation current continuous experimental placebo.Grupo: 14 individuals will be submitted to gait training on the treadmill with transcranial stimulation active direct current in the motor cortex.
The gait training on a treadmill performed in the control group and experimental group, 5 sessions per week for 2 weeks, with duration of 20 minutes per sessão.A speed of the treadmill will livre.A transcranial stimulation will be held in the primary motor cortex during the sessions training, with an intensity of 2 mA for experimental group and no current flows to the control group.
Patients with a diagnosis of stroke. Both sexes. Age between 50 and 70 years. Able to walk independently.
Patients with stroke who have joint pain in the lower limbs that compromise the function. What have contractions in the joints of the lower limbs. With cardiovascular and cognitive changes that make it impossible to perform the tests. With metal implants in the head.
Improvements in walking speed, measured by three-dimensional gait evaluation to be held after 10 sessions of stimulation transcranial direct current in the motor cortex primárioao gait training on a treadmill.
Secondary outcomes are expected not.
Exercise
Acute Effects of Exercise during hemodialysis on oxidative stress markers in patients with Chronic Renal Failure
Nine patients underwent control protocol and the intervention protocol (n=9). The control protocol (n=9) consists of performing a hemodialysis session as routine service. In the intervention protocol, the patient underwent during hemodialysis, the training of peripheral muscles through exercise on a cycle ergometer for lower limbs for about 20 minutes without load, maintaining a pace that ensures values of heart rate next to 70% of maximum heart rate obtained in six-minute walk test. The proposed exercise was applied in the afternoon, in the second hour of the second day of the week hemodialysis. The equipment was attached to the dialysis chair and patients had their vital signs monitored throughout the hemodialysis session as routine service. Upon completion of the exercise, the patients underwent stretching for muscles of the lower limbs. Throughout the hemodialysis session that was conducted the exercise, the patient had the supervision of the researcher. The blood samples for analysis were carried out in three stages for each protocol: (1) before the start of hemodialysis, (2) after completion of the exercises in the intervention protocol and about an hour and twenty minutes from the start of dialysis in control protocol (time equivalent to the intervention protocol), (3) after the end of dialysis. Samples were collected by nursing technicians CLINEFRO Hemodialysis Service Hospital Ernesto Dornelles where the research was carried out without the need for punching venous access for patients, since they were on hemodialysis. 
Patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis three times a week, for more than six months; both genders, aged 45 to 70 years.
Severe heart diseases; amputation of the lower limbs; cognitive disorders; inability to understand the guidelines to carry out the tests proposed; musculoskeletal and osteo disabling; presence of femoral fistula.
Primary outcome found: The kinetics of reactive c protein during the evaluated times did not differ significativa.Os values obtained for C-reactive protein before, during and after the intervention (intradialítico exercise) were 5.02 ± 2,34mg / L, 4 45 ± 2,53mg / l 5.3 ± 2,27mg / l respectively. In the control protocol values were 7.08 ± 3.64 mg / L 5.85 ± 3,36mg / l 8.38 ± 4.20 mg / L, respectively. No statistical differences were observed in comparisons before and after intraprotocolo and between protocols.
Secondary outcome found: there was no significant difference in the frequency of peripheral CC chemokine type 5 or natural killer. The kinetics of creatine during the evaluated times showed no significant difference. Comparing the moments before, during and after hemodialysis, the intervention protocol showed reduction in peripheral frequency of CCR5 chemokine (11.6 ± 1.18%, 10.55% ± 1.9 and 9.0 ± 1.41% ) with statistically significant difference between the moments before and after hemodialysis (p = 0.018), but no significant reduction in the frequency of peripheral natural killer (19.49 ± 5.32%, 16.48 ± 3.8%; 18, 77 ± 3.8%). The control protocol showed no significant difference in the peripheral frequency of CCR5 chemokine (6.8 ± 2.5%, 6.2% ± 1.2, 5.8 ± 2%) or natural killer cell (16.48 ± 4, 32%; 12.14% ± 3.6, 9.5 ± 2.1%).
Effect of carvedilol medication and vitamins E and C in patients with Chagas
Effect of carvedilol and antioxidant vitamins (E and C) in patients with chronic Chagas cardiopathy.
Initially all patients, regardless of which group they belonged, according to the degree of cardiac involvement (Ia, Ib, II and III) received carvedilol 12.5 mg three times daily for six months, orally. After this period, along with the carvedilol was added antioxidant therapy for all patients (regardless of which group they were framed), vitamin supplementation with 800 IU of vitamin E and 500mg of vitamin C per day for a further period of six months, orally .

control group: no treatment
We included only patients who had previously studied the oxidative stress in the year 2003 onwards, aged between 21 and 70 years active and regularly monitored in ambulatory Chagas Service of Cardiology HUCFF diagnosed with Chagas disease, and that maintained the same eating habits. We only included patients with Chagas disease without other chronic diseases, apart from an endemic area for over 20 years.

Patients were excluded from the study if they had any of the following characteristics:
Patients who have not completed the initial protocol of admission;
Check the isolated effect of carvedilol for 6 months and the effect of combined therapy with antioxidant vitamin supplementation after 6 months, the blood of patients with chronic Chagas heart disease in different evolutionary stages.For this clinical evaluation was performed to allow verification of signs and cardiovascular and digestive symptoms consistent with Chagas disease, as well as for making a differential diagnosis with other cardiac or noncardiac disease that could affect the cardiovascular system. As patients were included in this study, they made over a period of one week a laboratory evaluation including complete blood count, glucose, urea and creatinine, uric acid, total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, sodium, calcium and potassium, total proteins and fractions, liver function tests and thyroid, examination of stools and urine analysis for abnormal elements and sediment. These tests were performed throughout this study when clinically required. The first 30 days after inclusion were performed the following tests: the conventional resting ECG with 12 leads, chest x-ray postero-anterior and lateral, one and two dimensional echocardiography and Doppler study of oxidative stress.Similarly, throughout the study, these tests were repeated annually and when they were needed, that is, with the patient's clinical change, except the study of oxidative stress was always performed after the intervention occurred. Antioxidant defenses and oxidative stress biomarkers were measured in the study three times in their respective groups, one before surgery and 2 after carvedilol administration of carvedilol (six months) and then after joint administration of carvedilol with vitamin E and C for another 6 months (carvedilol 12.5 mg, 3 times daily for 6 months, at a dose of 800UI/day vitamin E and 500mg/day vitamin C, single dose for 6 months).     
Biochemical tests performed to test the antioxidant capacity of the drug carvedilol with / without vitamins E and C were the following: determining the activity of the following antioxidant enzymes: superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione S-transferase and glutathione reductase. Were also carried out determination of nonenzymatic antioxidants such as determining levels of reduced glutathione and vitamin E concentration in the blood of patients with chronic Chagas' disease before and after administration of carvedilol for 6 months and after this drug combination with vitamins E and C for over 6 months. Similarly we evaluated the lipid markers of damage, level of substances that react with thiobarbituric acid and protein damage, by determining the protein carbonyl content. We also analyzed the inflammatory markers such as nitric oxide levels and activity of the enzyme adenosine deaminase and myeloperoxidase.
Gabapentin and dexclorfeniramine in the treatment of pruritus in hemodialysis patients
Gabapentin versus dexclorfeniramine in the treatment of uremic pruritus in hemodialysis patients: a randomized clinical trial, double-blind and controlled
Participants (n=71) with persistent itching, will be provided the Cold cream (topical product- intervention) with use of 2 times a day,in the whole body, for 15 days. After this period, the participants still with persistent itching of any intensity (n=60) will be randomized to receive gabapentin at the dose of 300 mg three times per week (Group 1; n=30, intervention) or dexchlorpheniramine at a dose of 6mg (Group 2; n=30, active control group) two times per day,  by 21 days. Both groups will receive orientation to take 1 tablet every 12 hours and received 2 bottles identified as 
Sign the consent form; Age above 18 years, of both genders; chronic renal insufficiency stage 5 on hemodialysis for at least 3 months; persistent pruritus of any intensity that occurs at least three times per week with a duration of 30 days or more; no use of topical antipruritic medications and / or systemic at least one week before start of study

Chronic skin diseases (allergic, infectious and parasitic); Chronic liver disease; Internal malignant disease; Use of opioids, antihistamines or corticosteroids.
the participants Will be discontinued if: withdrawal of consent; using other treatments for pruritus not recommended in this protocol and serious adverse events
• Decreased of  pruritus score, by VAS (Visual Analog Scale),  and improving the quality of life measured by DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index) after treatment with gabapentin and dexclorfeniramina;  The VAS and DLQI will be applied before treatment (T0), after treatment with emollient (after 15 days -T15) and after oral treatment with gabapentin or dexchlorpheniramine (after 36 days - T36)
1.Decreased of  pruritus score, by VAS (Visual Analog Scale),  and improving the quality of life measured by DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index) after treatment with emollient. 2.Assessment of adverse events  The VAS and DLQI will be applied before treatment (T0), after treatment with emollient (15 days - T15) and after oral treatment with gabapentin or dexchlorpheniramine (36 days -T36).
Comparison of two anesthetic gels at maxillary posterior teeth extraction.
Comparison of anesthetic efficacy between two gels in extraction of upper molars : a randomized clinical trial.
Will be selected 80 individuals who require extraction of upper molars. They will undergo pulpal anesthesia of the molar by blocking the posterior superior alveolar nerve and for anesthesia of the palatal mucosa the topical formulations in question will be applied: a 2.5% lidocaine and 2.5% prilocaine gel(control group); Or a gel of the same composition associated with liposomes. Half of the Volunteers will receive one formulation and another half will recieve the other formulation. The randomization will be realized by a first researcher. A second researcher will apply the topical formulations, and perform the extractions. During the procedure a third researcher will time and will make note of time when there is pain, if any. Those in which it is possible to perform without pain complaint procedure, will be considered as a success of the formulation, if there is pain had followed procedure with infiltration anesthesia with lidocaine 02% with epinephrine 1: 100,000 and it is not considered success.
Individuals treated at the Department of Dentistry, Federal University of Sergipe ; of both genders; in the age range 18-60 Years of Age; sign an Informed Consent Form; Need of upper molars extraction
History of allergy or other problems arising from the use of any components of the formulations to be employed; History of methemoglobinemia; Alcoholics and toxic users; Fear of dentist; Pregnancy.

To verify the efficacy of the anesthetic gels in question tested through their application in the palatal region for upper molar extraction. This will be confirmed upon completion of the extraction procedure with out pain.
Longer anesthetic duration expected in the group with liposome-associated anesthetic gel.  Evaluated by the use of needles in the palate periodically, until when the patient feels pain and then will be fixed its value of duration
Effects of self-care rests on knowledge, self-care and metabolic control in adult men with diabetes mellitus
Effectiveness of self-care rests on knowledge, self-care and cardiometabolic control of adult men with Diabetes Mellitus
The intervention to be performed will be based on the principles and steps of supported self-care, guided by Behavior Change Protocol (Behavior Change Protocol - BCP) and consists of an educational program with quarterly meetings, and individual at home, through home visits, and group in the Basic Health Unit (BHU), in addition to telephone monitoring in the interval between two meetings. This intervention is applied along the 70 men 40 to 70 years with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus, which will be randomized in the intervention group (IG) for a period of six months. The initial and final period will be collected socioeconomic data on knowledge, self-care, psychological adjustment, self-efficacy in diabetes and clinical and laboratory data. Afterwards, individual meetings will be scheduled at home or in group at UBS, as participant availability. During these meetings, they will be followed in the footsteps of self-management model of the 5
Having medical diagnosis of DM2.
Being male.
Present lesions in target organs (brain, heart, kidneys, eyes) or comorbidities/complications resulting from diabetes, recorded in medical records, such as chronic renal failure.
Glycemic control: will be checked through the Glycated Hemoglobin values (HbA1c), measured from the liquid chromatography method of high performance. values equal to or less than 7% are considered normal and above 7% changed. Also considered will be the percentage change in glycated hemoglobin levels between the different moments of intervention (initial and final).
Self-care attitudes: measured from QAD questionnaire ( Self Care Questionnaire in Diabetes). For the analysis of adherence to the questionnaire items, they will be parameterized in number of days per week, from zero to seven, zero being the least desirable and seven to more favorable situation, with the exception of items the size specific power that question assessing the consumption of foods rich in fat and sweets, for which the values ??are reversed. It will be evaluated by the average number of days. comparisons will be made between the beginning and at the end of the intervention. Self-efficacy (or Empowerment): measured from the self-efficacy scale in diabetes - short version (EAD -VC). The questionnaire addresses the training for the care of diabetes. Eight statements for which the respondent demonstrate their level of agreement, using a Likert scale of five points that part of "strongly disagree" (one point ) to" strongly agree" (five points). The overall score is calculated by the average of the scores of each of the eight items. It is considered high a score of 3.8-5.0, an average of 2.4-3.7 and low at 1-2.3. comparisons will be made between the beginning and at the end of the intervention. Psychological adjustment : We used the ATT -19 instrument, which contains 19 items and describes the emotional responses of the DM. Each statement is answered with the help of a kind of scale Likert five points, from " Strongly disagree" to" Strongly agree". TTA -19 Apontuação will 19-95 points. To achieve a positive attitude about DM, the user needs to achieve a minimum score of 70 points. comparisons will be made between the beginning and at the end of the intervention. Knowledge about diabetes: test was used which has a total score of 15 points, addressing the knowledge of the DM. The DKN-A is associated with psychological, hypoglycemia, insulin, food groups, replacement of food, DM management and general principles of care of the disease. To show a satisfactory knowledge of the DM, the user needs to do at least 8 points. comparisons will be made between the beginning and at the end of the intervention. Clinical indicators of cardiometabolic control (Blood Pressure, Body Fat Percentage, CA, WHR, BMI, weight, fasting glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, Creatinine Plasma). comparisons will be made between the beginning and at the end of the intervention.
A multicenter, randomized, double-blind study,
to verify whether the treatment with dextrocetamina association with clonidine in the form of cream for application to the skin is superior to placebo (cream without any drug) in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
A multicenter randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study to determine the efficacy and safety of dextro-ketamine 1% in combination with clonidine 0.03% topical gel cream in the treatment of neuropathic pain syndromes.
Investigational group (Cristália ketamine-clonidine combination): 76 patients suffering of neuropathic pain will receive dextro ketamine 1%in combination with clonidine 0.03% topical gel cream. The product should be topically applied every day,every 12 hours,to all previously defined painful areas and respecting the maximum limit of two grams for each application period, during 12 weeks.
Comparator group (placebo): 76 patients suffering of neuropathic pain will receive placebo. The product should be topically applied every day, every 12 hours,to all previously defined painful areas and respecting the maximum limit of two grams for each application period, during 12 weeks.
Signed and dated informed consent form. Male or female patients of any ethnic origin aged 18 years or over. Outpatient status. Patients with diagnosis of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), post herpetic neuralgia (PHN), post traumatic or post operative peripheral neuropathy and leprosy; DPN defined as peripheral, somatic or autonomic nerve damage attributable solely to diabetes mellitus; PHN defined as pain lasting longer than three months beyond the crusting of the skin lesions after an acute attack of Herpes zoster.Patients with moderate to severe pain all or most of the time, that has persisted for three months or longer (for patients with post herpetic neuralgia pain present for more than three months after healing of Herpes zoster skin rash. Patients with DN4 score 4. Patients with pharmacological therapies for neuropathic pain [anticonvulsants, selective and non- selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, antidepressants, gabapentoids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), salicylates, or acetaminophen] should be dose stabilized for at least 14 days before randomization and be willing to maintain therapy constant, avoid changes, or initiate new therapies throughout the study. Patients with normal cognitive and communicative ability as judged by clinical assessment and ability to complete self-report questionnaires. Women of childbearing potential must have a negative urine pregnancy test before randomization and must be using and willing to continue using adequate contraception (hormonal, double barrier or intrauterine device, according to medical indication) or be sexually abstinent during the study, and must not be lactating. Post-menopausal women for less than two years are considered of childbearing potential.
Patients with severe pain associated with conditions other than diabetic peripheral neuropathy, post herpetic neuralgia, leprosy and post traumatic or post operative peripheral neuropathy [e.g., significant vasculitis, collagen vascular disorder, familial neuropathy, alcoholism, pernicious anemia, hepatitis, malignancy, syphilis, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculopathy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), medication-induced neuropathy, vitamin B12 deficiency, and others]. Patients with other sustained pain with intensity at, or greater than neuropathic pain. Patients with major depression requiring treatment. Patients with known allergy to clonidine or ketamine. Patients with ongoing use of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. Patients with current use of antiarrhythmic drugs of class one (sodium channel blockers). Patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus (fasting blood glucose ? 130 mg/dL) or uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pression ? 180mmHg or diastolic ? 110mmHg). Patients using implanted medical device (e.g., spinal cord stimulator, intrathecal pump, or peripheral nerve stimulator) for pain treatment. Patients clinically hypotensive with a resting diastolic blood pressure 
Decrease of at least 2.3 points in pain intensity measured by a scale of 11 points, where 0 means no pain and 10 the most intense pain possible, by comparing the measurements of baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment.
Incidence of adverse events (AE).
A study of Intranasal Rapid Action Esketamine for Major Depression Treatment Resistant
A study of Intranasal Rapid Action Esketamine for Major Depressive Disorder Treatment Resistant
Escetamine group; 98 participants; Participants will self-administer esketamine intranasally twice per week for 4 weeks as a flexible dose regimen in the Double-Blind Induction Phase. All participants will start at a dose of 56 mg on Day 1. On Day 4, the dose may be increased to 84 mg or remain at 56 mg per investigator’s discretion. On Days 8 and 11 the dose may be increased to 84 mg (from 56 mg), remain same, or be reduced to 56 mg (from 84 mg) per investigator’s discretion. On Day 15, a dose reduction from 84 mg to 56 mg is permitted, if required for tolerability; no dose increase permitted. After Day 15, dose must remain stable (unchanged); Control Group; 98 participants; participants will simultaneously initiate a new, open-label oral antidepressant (duloxetine, escitalopram, sertraline, or venlafaxine extended release [XR]) on Day 1 that will be continued for the duration of Double- Blind Induction Phase
 At the time of signing the informed consent form (ICF), participant must be a man or woman 18 (or older if the minimum legal age of consent in the country in which the study is taking place is greater than [
Participants who have previously demonstrated nonresponse of depressive symptoms to esketamine or ketamine in the current major depressive episode, to all 4 of the oral antidepressant treatment options available for the double-blind induction phase (ie, duloxetine, escitalopram, sertraline, and venlafaxine extended release [XR]) in the current major depressive episode (based on MGH-ATRQ), or an adequate course of treatment with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the current major depressive episode, defined as at least 7 treatments with unilateral ECT - Participant currently has an implant for vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) or has received deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the current episode of depression - Participant has a current or prior DSM-5 diagnosis of a psychotic disorder or MDD with psychosis, bipolar or related disorders (confirmed by the MINI), comorbid obsessive compulsive disorder, intellectual disability (only DSM-5 diagnostic code 319), borderline personality disorder, antisocial personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, or narcissistic personality disorder - Participant has homicidal ideation/intent, per the investigator’s clinical judgment, or has suicidal ideation with some intent to act within 6 months prior to the start of the screening/prospective observational phase, per the investigator’s clinical judgment or based on the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS) – Participants with history of moderate or severe substance or alcohol use disorder according to DSM-5 criteria
Change From Baseline in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) Total Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase - The MADRS is a clinician-rated scale designed to measure depression severity and detects changes due to antidepressant treatment. The MADRS evaluates apparent sadness, reported sadness, inner tension, sleep, appetite, concentration, lassitude, interest level, pessimistic thoughts, and suicidal thoughts.
Change From Baseline in Subject reported Depressive Symptoms Using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ- 9) Total Score at End of Doubleblind Induction Phase - The PHQ-9 is a 9-item scale used to assess depressive symptoms.; Change From Baseline in Subject reported Functioning and Associated Disability as assessed by the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) Total Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase - The SDS is a subject-reported outcome measure and is a 5-item questionnaire which has been widely used and accepted for assessment of functional impairment and associated disability. ; Change From Baseline in Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase - The CGI-S evaluates the severity of psychopathology on a scale of 0 to 7. Considering total clinical experience, a participant is assessed on severity of mental illness. The CGI-S permits a global evaluation of the participant’s condition at a given time; Change From Baseline in Subject reported Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) Total Score at End of Doubleblind Induction Phase - The GAD-7 is a brief and validated measure of overall anxiety.; Change From Baseline in Subjectreported Healthrelated Quality of Life and Health Status as Assessed by  EuroQol- 5 Dimension-5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) at End ofDouble-blind Induction Phase - The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome, primarily designed for self-completion by respondents.; Onset of Clinical Response is defined as greater than or equal to (>=) 50% improvement in MADRS total score by the day after taking the first dose [ie, Day 2] of double blind intranasal medication, that is sustained through the end of the 4-week double-blind induction phase 
Intralesional treatment for cutaneous leishmanisis
Efficacy and safety of intralesional use of meglumine antimoniate in the treatment of localized cutaneous leishmaniasis
Infiltration of intralesional meglumine antimoniate in all 49 study subjects, 0.008 ml per mm2 of lesion area, weekly, 8 applications. There will be no placebo or no treatment group.
volunteers with localized cutaneous form of leishmaniasis; both sexes; with up to maximum of three lesions and area of lesions of not more than 900mm2
Pretreatment with antileishmanial drugs for less than 6 months;
History of allergy to meglumine antimoniate; Presence of congestive heart failure or cardiac arrhythmia; Medication with potential to cause cardiac arrhythmia; Pregnancy or lactation; Creatinine above 2 mg%
efficacy of intralesional infiltration evaluated by the absolute number and percentage of cured patients compared to treated patients. Cure is defined by complete epithelization of the lesion and no infiltration. 
relapse rate in one year evaluated by number of relapsed patients  at 12-month clinical assessment 
Effect of Aquatic and Conventional Physiotherapy in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis patients
Effect of Aquatic and Conventional Physiotherapy on gait, pain, clinical and functional aspects in Lumbar Spinal Stenosis patients: Randomized Clinical Trial
There will be two groups, each one with 9 paticipants and each participant will receive 24 sessions of 50 minutes of Physiotherapy. Groups will be divided in Aquatic Physiotherapy (Physiotherapy executed in water) and Conventional Physiotherapy (physiotherapy aplied in physiotherapeutic clinic). Both roups will have matched sessions, composed bu warm up exercises (like walking), strenghening exercises of postural muscles, streching and manual therapy. The only difference between groups is the enviorenment wher it is aplied (water and ground).
Patients of both genders, aging between 30 and 80 years old; diagnosed with Lumbar Spinal Stenosis, confirmed by recent imaging exam;
 Patients should not present hystory of spinal or hip cirgury,  tumors or spinal infections, uncontrolled hipertension, urinary incontinence, hidrofobia, oppen wounds or fungic infections; They have to have the ability to make and participated all test; Will be excluded participants that had more than two consecutive absences, three alternate absences, or more that a total of 40 minutos late during intervention.
Functional incapacity (Oswestry index), Perceidev pain (Visual Analogue Scale of pain), Self Selected Walking Speed (speed of free walking), Spatiotemporal gait variables (Kinematics). 
Mood (Beck Depression Index), static and dynamic balance (adapted Untenberger and Romberg test in force plataform), Functional Fìsic Capability (six minutes walking test), Medication Consuption (self reported in a diary), Pelvis cinematic (kinematics), Neuromuscular activation pattern (electromyography).
Comparison of hydrotherapy anddry land exercise associated with lasertherapy on pain relief, stretching and daily activities in elderly patients with knee osteoarthritis.
Comparison of physiotherapy aquatic and dry land exercise associated with low level laser therapy in perception of pain, flexibility and life daily activities in elderly with knee osteoarthritis: randomized clinical trial.
Intervention programs have a duration of 12 weeks, with every three days a week and last approximately 30 minutes.
Laser therapy will be applied in five points around the knee joint, before the proposed activities in intervention programs.
Volunteers knee osteoarthritis; both genders; age between 60 and 80 years.
Volunteers with severe cardiac and respiratory diseases; fibromyalgia; epilepsy; knee replacement or hip; inability to walk independently; otitis; sores on the skin; mycoses; hydrophobia.
It is expected to find in both groups of intervention programs increased in flexibility through Wells test (around 5 cm), decrease in pain assessed by visual analogue scale, reductions in scores on the WOMAC index / Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (from 20 to 30 points in most volunteers). In the control group it is expected that there are no changes in the values of any variable analyzed.
The results in both intervention groups are statistically better (considering p greater than 0.05) than the control group, the following variables: pain assessed by visual analogue scale, activities of daily living assessed by WOMAC index, flexibility through bank Wells, after the end of treatment.
Effect of elastic bandage on the jump and balance of athletes
Analysis of the effectiveness of Kinesio Tape on the performance of jumping and dynamic balance in athletes
Group 1: elastic bandage will be applied once with tension from 50% to stimulation of the triceps surae muscles. The same will be applied and immediately after application, the tests will be made of hops and dynamic balance.
Men and women, aged between 18 and 45 years, athletes of jump modalities that do not have previous neurological or vestibular disorders, musculoskeletal or any change that interferes with or contra-indicate the measurement procedures of this study
Athletes who are minors, they do not use methods that have jumps and vestibular disorders, neurological or musculoskeletal
In the study outcome assessments will be compared in groups of two. The variables that are compared are: Vertical jump height: measured using a contact mat that will provide the flight time during the one-leg jumping athletes. Horizontal jump distance: the distance will be achieved by the athlete in a single-leg jump. Dynamic Balance: evaluated by testing Star Excursion Balance Test, where the athlete has one foot to reach the farthest point possible in three directions.
Data colletion was finalized with no missing data
Comparation of Physiotherapu Approach Using Weights and Elastic Bands on Respiratory Function
Comparation of Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation with Resistive Exercise of Fixed Load and Elastic Load on Respiratory Function
10 volunteers will be convened and allocated in each group following calculation of sampling and previous studies.Volunteers will be randomly assigned by lottery in opaque paper conducted by the principal investigator, in three groups, called group FNP elastic load , FNP group with fixed load and control group.The exercises fixed load and elastic load exercises follow the basic procedures of proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation  with the standard flexion-abduction-external rotation and extension-adduction-internal rotation. Technique will be used specific characterization with antagonists reversal in momentum reversal in both types of exercise.All volunteers will be evaluated for thoracic mobility through cirtometry, maximal inspiratory pressure  and maximal expiratory pressure by manometer before the training period.For acquisition training load, volunteers will undergo testing for evaluation of the maximum load of 1 repetition maximum  and the fixed charge and a 1-RM load elastic. Movements to be performed to determine the 1-RM should follow the standards of FNP. The intensities used in workouts are the following: 80% 1-RM load in fixed load and 70-80% 1-RM load in elastic load.During the entire run of the series will be a verbal stimulus by orienting the volunteer researcher to follow the correct movements, respecting the proposed time of testing for all participants.Volunteers will be called to the exercises on another day, and in the afternoon, respecting an interval of 24 hours among sessions . In the day the session being performed, the position of the volunteer and the distance established for both the track elastic and for the fixed charge will be determined on the same day of the test load of 1-RM.The exercise training protocol will consist of a program of exercises that follow the standards of the PNF, being held three times per week for four weeks, three sets of ten repetitions, respecting an interval between sets 45 seconds. The control group did not perform any activity during the training of the two groups that suffer intervention.After one month of completion of training with elastic resistance exercise load and fixed load individuals will be re-evaluated by all parameters previously performed, such as mobility chest by use of the circumference and the MIP and MEP by manometer.




Normotensive, aged 18-25 years, not smoking, right-handed according to the Inventory of the Edinburgh Handedness, sedentary.
Underweight and obese according to body mass index, heart disease, lung disease, musculoskeletal disorders.
Increased respiratory muscle strength data on maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressure evaluated through the use of the manometer to the end of the study compared to the beginning of the protocol due to increased respiratory muscle activity, inspiratory and expiratory caused by muscle training exercises with resistance load fixed and elastic load and expansibility data measured in centimeters with a simple tape measure at the end of the study compared with the beginning of the evaluation of the protocol due to the increase in respiratory muscle strength which tends to increase the volumes inspired and expired.
Improves physical capacity gain by respiratory capacity and quality of life by improving the physical capacity
Analysis of movement and muscle activity of the balance of strategies used by children with spastic cerebral palsy during the pediatric previous range test
Kinematic and electromyographic analysis of the equilibrium strategies used by children with spastic cerebral palsy in the pediatric reach test
A questionnaire to characterize the body shape of the child, characterizing the children and their parents will be applied.
The sample study will consist of 28 children, aged between 6 and 14 years, 14 with clinical diagnosis of cerebral palsy, classified as I and II according to the Gross Motor Function Classification System grouped in the experimental group (Cerebral Palsy Group or CPG) and 14 with typical motor development for the control group (Control Group or CG), matched for sex and age.
The inclusion criteria for the CPG (Cerebral Palsy Group) will be the diagnosis of cerebral palsy; grade mild or moderate; diparesis type; grade I (without walking restrictions, limitations in the more advanced gross motor skills) and II (walk without assistive devices, with limitations in space open and community) according to the GMFCS (Gross Motor Function Classification System).
For CG (Control Group), the inclusion criteria established will be the absence of any motor; perceptual; sensory and cognitive commitment.
Exclusion criteria for the CPG (Cerebral Palsy Group) will be considered the presence deformity in the lower limbs or spine that compromises stay in the upright posture and cognitive changes that undermine the understanding of the tasks performed during avaliação.
For the CG (Control Group), exclusion criteria will be the diagnose of any malformations; genetic syndromes; congenital defects; deformities
Children with cerebral palsy showed less distance reached during pediatric reach test compared to their typical motor development pairs. The mean value found for typical children (16.05 cm ) was lower than that found in the literature ( 22,7cm and 37cm ) .
Secondary outcomes are not expected .
Effects of the pressure of the hands on the chest to remove secretions from the lung in patients on life support
Effects of chest compression in patients on mechanical ventilation
20 patients of both sexes will be evaluated , regardless of age , in use of an endotracheal tube or tracheostomy , receiving ventilatory support , sedated , hemodynamically stable , no active participation in the ventilador.Todos patients included in this study will be submitted to the control group ( CTRL ) and Intervention ( INTERVAL ) . The interval between the application of each protocol will be set at 24 hours
  In the intervention group patients will undergo chest compression maneuvers consisting of vigorous compression of the thorax , performed bilaterally , both hands being placed in the lower third of the patient
Patients of both genres; aged between 18 and 80 years; in use of an endotracheal tube or tracheostomy; receiving ventilatory support; sedated; hemodynamically stable; no active participation in the fan; having diagnosed the presence of lung infection
History of pulmonary disease; hemodynamic instability; abnormalities of the chest or abdominal wall; obesity; severe scoliosis; pregnancy; cardiac pacemaker; pneumothorax; flail ches;, presence of vascular fragility; acute respiratory distress syndrome; thrombocytopenia
Most secretion removed and consequent improvement in lung mechanics and gas exchange in the group submitted to maneuver chest compression measured by the weight of secretion, blood gases and lung mechanics measured before and after the maneuvers of chest compression
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Effects of everolimus (Certican) on cardiac hypertrophy and carotid atherosclerosis after kidney transplantation
Effects of Everolimus (Certican) on cardiac hypertrophy and carotid atherosclerosis after kidney transplantation 
All patients will receive the same imunossupressive drugs in the beginning of the transplantation: tacrolimo (0,2mg/Kg and frequent readjusts tom maintain a serum level between 20 and 15 ng/ml during the first month, and 5-10 ng/ml thereafter), sodium mycophenolate (720mg BID), and prednisone( initial dose of 30mg/day gradually decreased to 5mg/day after 30 days of transplantation). All patients who receive deceased donor or unrelated living donors transplant  will receive basiliximab induction (20mg) at days zero and four after transplantation. At randomization time (12±4 weeks after the transplantation) elegible patients will be submitted to a renal biopsy. If there’s no subclinical rejection or any inflammation on biopsy, patient will be randomly randomized in 2 groups: Control Group: 24 patients that will maintain on the same imunossupressive regimen and Everolimo group: 24 patients whose imunossupressive regimen will be changed with progressive conversion from tacrolimo to everolimo and maintenance of sodium micophenolate and prednisone. At the randomization time, after 6 months and after 1 year of the randomization, all patients will have a physical examination, antropometric assessment, and monitoring of arterial hypertension and heart rate. Additionally, biochemical tests will be performed to evaluate creatinine level, creatinine clearance, lipid profile, complete blood count, everolimus or tacrolimus concentrations, urianalysis, urine culture and proteinuria over 24 hours. A carotid ultrasound and an echocardiographic examination will be done in all patients.  Upon all clinical visits, study participants will be asked about any common or severe adverse effect related to the drugs used in the study. Urine and blood tests will also help detecting adverse effects. 
The patient who agree to participate in the study, who have a consent form signed and meet the following criteria: age of 30 years or greater and being a recipient of de novo kidney transplant from a deceased donor or non-HLA identical living donor. At randomization time the patients needs to meet this criteria: creatinine clearance estimated by Cockroft-Gault formula of 40ml/min or greater and proteinuria of 800mg/day or less.
Patients will be excluded of the study if: with painel reactive antibody of 50% or higher, recipients of a second transplant with the first transplant loss for any immunological cause within the first year of transplantation, multi-organ recipient, ABO incompatible donor; non-beating heart donor; donor age of 5 yars or less and donor age of 65 years or higher. At the randomization  time, patients will be excluded if: they were on a rejection treatment, if they have history of Baff IIB or higher rejection insult, previous rejection resistant to corticosteroids, presence of subclinical rejection or severe inflammation on protocolar biopsy, presence of total blood cont leucocyte of 2500uL or less, neutrofiles of 1500uL or less, platelets of 75000uL or less, hemoglobin of 6,0g/L or less, liver disease or active infection, positive pregnancy test 
Reduction of carotid atheromatous plaque thickness assessed by carotid Doppler ultrasound and reduction of left ventricular mass after 6 months and 1 year of the randomization in renal transplanted patients
Differences relative to creatinine clearance and number of  biopsy-proven acute rejection episodes.
Evaluation of the association of removable partial denture supported by implants distal extension.
Evaluation of the remaining alveolar ridge height, the masticatory efficiency and success rate of implants in patients with Kennedy Class I arches rehabilitated with removable partial dentures supported by implants.
The sample will be divided into two groups of thirty patients each: group 1 (control group) whose patients will be rehabilitated with removable partial dentures convencioanl group 2 (treated group, in which patients receive dental implants (implants WAS Neodoent, Curitiba, Brazil ) installed (one on each side in the region of the 2nd molar), the removable partial dentures (RPD) will be adapted for association with these implants.
The analysis of adaptation of the prosthesis and masticatory efficiency will be held in three separate stages. The first (T1), immediately after the installation of removable partial dentures (RPDs) in both groups, the second (T2), two months after the use of PRPs for the control group and treated group, the latter still prostheses not be effectively supported on implants (implants will meet in healing period), the third (T3), six months after the use of prostheses in the control group and treated group.
All patients should have been rehabilitated at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte;
Every patient should be bilateral mandibular posterior edentulous;
Will be excluded from the sample patients over 70 years or a weakened state of health;
Diabetic patients;
The evaluation of remaining alveolar ridge height will be made through the base of the saddle removable partial denture, which will serve as a tray, which will put an impression material (polyether) to copy the space between the oral mucosa and the base of the saddle.
The quality of life that is well defined as physical, mental, emotional and psychological, will be assessed through the questionnaire Oral Heath Impact Profile (OHIP-14)
Evaluation of related knowledge of pelvic floor, loss of urine and sexual dysfunction among women participating in a pelvic floor educational group 

Evaluation of related knowledge of pelvic floor, urinary incontinence and sexual dysfunction among women participating in a pelvic floor educational group 

Eexperimental group: 45 women who initially responded to an interview about personal details, occupational, socioeconomic status and educational level, knowledge of function and dysfunction of the pelvic floor muscles, treatment options and specifically on physical therapy and exercises for training these muscles. Then women will be interviewed about the report of urinary incontinence and sexual function and have the pelvic floor muscles evaluated by: - ??digital palpation (introduction of the examiner
Women who are interested in participating in an education group of the pelvic floor. Women capable of interacting in an interview. Women who agree to participate after the clarification of the researchers.
Women who are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
There were no significant difference in the intergroup analysis in relation to muscle function assessed by perineometry (p = 0:08). The average difference in the Maximum voluntary contraction between the groups after four weeks was 4.3 cm H2O (95% - 5:33 to 13.93). However, significant differences were found in maximal voluntary contraction in intra-group analysis for the intervention group (p = 0.002) (95% CI -2.73 to -13.69 5.48) and no significant differences for the control group (p = 0.45).
Regarding the results for the contraction capacity assessed by vaginal palpation, no significant differences were found in the intergroup analysis (p = 0.42). To reduce urinary incontinence in severity and impact of UI on quality of life (ICIQ-SF score) there was no significant difference in the intergroup analysis regarding the reduction of the used questionnaire score (95% CI 0.3 to 2.92 -2.32), but the intragroup analysis found a significant difference to the group intervention (p = 0.004) (95% CI -2.27 -4.90 to 00:36) and no significant differences for the control group (p = 0.11) (95% CI -1.18 -3.93 to 1.57). As for the increase of knowledge related to floor muscles pelvic met difference significant to all the issues raised (location of floor muscles pelvic p= 0.01, depending on the floor muscles pelvic p <0.001, dysfunction p<0.001,  treatment options p = 0.001) in the intervention group and significant difference only to the issue of treatment options for the control group (p =0.01). 
healing wounds evaluation in patients with sickle cell anemia
Evaluation of ulcer healing process in patients with sickle cell anemia
Experimental group: 62 patients undergoing weekly curative exchanges with Unna boot after cleaning the lesion with saline 0.9% 500-1000mL in jet followed by the use of primary dressings with Essential Fatty Acids or collagenase, as needed.
Control group: 62 patients subjected to conventional dressings performed once a week using the same technique cleaning lesion with physiological saline 0.9% 500-1000mL jet followed by the use of primary dressings Essential Fatty Acids or collagenase, as need, but without the use of Unna
To be registered and regularly attend multidisciplinary outpatient healing of HU / UFS; be older than 12 years; ulcers present in one or both members; being a carrier of sickle cell anemia.
Patient
Monitoring wound healing by measuring its perimeter over six months. The lesions will be documented by serial photographs under the same environmental conditions, with a distance of one meter from injury. The wound will be modeled on sterile paper and then transferred to transparent paper to estimate the perimeter
The clinical aspect of the lesion will be used the classification RYB over six months. Red - predominated by granulation tissue; Yellow - show fibrous exudate; and Black - have tissue necrosis
Effectiveness analysis of very small-bore catheters for drainage of malignant pleural effusions
Effectiveness analysis of very small-bore catheters for drainage of malignant pleural effusions
Intervention group: 50 patients will undergo very small-bore catheter (5Fr) thoracostomy until the withdrawal criteria are achieved
Control group: 50 patients will undergo large-bore chest tube (28Fr) thoracostomy until the withdrawal criteria are achieved
Patients with malignant pleural effusion requiring chest drainage
Agreement  with the research and signing of the Informed Consent Form.
Patients less than 18 years-old
Empyema
Lung expansion evaluated by a chest X-ray 48h after the drainage procedure (total, partial, absent). The images will be analyzed by two radiologists separately
Catheters obstruction, evaluated by failure in the outlet and / or inlet fluid through the catheter
Comparison of presence of microorganisms and measurement of calcium , phosphorus . magnesium, sodium and potassium fresh samples collected from the patient side, at home and after pasteurization 
Comparison of microbiological and physicochemical property of raw human milk collected at the bedside , at home and after pasteurization
The aim of the study was to compare the presence of contamination and the physical and chemical composition of the raw human milk on edge of bed, mothers of hospitalized infants with the milked at home and after pasteurization.
For the purpose was carried out manual milking or electric pump 75 mothers with their children admitted to neonatal intensive care unit and 75 donor milk from a milk bank in a public hospital in the state of São Paulo. The donated milk samples were taken before and after pasteurization. It is obtained 72 bedside samples; 68 and 68 before pasteurizing after pasteurization. totaling 208 samples.
Mothers of newborn preterm who agreed to participate. No consent was obtained for the use of samples taken from the milk bank , as the same were donated by mothers to the hospital
Mothers who agreed to sign the free and informed consent .
mothers who had their children over 37 weeks of gestation were excluded 
 Preterm mother's milk is suitable for consumption by antisepsis with chlorhexidine breast. In the result of BGBL grew gram-positive bacteria. The concentration of Ca, Na, Mg, K, P dosages are: - Higher in term mothers milk before pasteurizing for: P, Ca and K; p value in comparison before and after pasteurising 0.002, that is statistically significant. - Premature mothers milk are higher: Mg and Na. P value <0.0001 for sodium when comparing before and pasteurize bedside. For magnesium result is not statistically significant. - There was a statistically significant decrease in the concentration of these nutrients after pasteurisation p value <0.0001. - The concentrations found in preterm milk are adequate to meet their needs from 10 ml supply for feed for Na and K. In 15 ml per feeding for Mg. And Ca and P from 60ml per feeding. Dosages of broth brilliant green bile lactose (BGBL) are still in statistical analysis.
No secondary outcomes .
Tibial nerve electrical stimulation for urinary incontinence in older women
Long term efficacy transcutaneous tibial nerve electrical stimulation for Urge Urinary Incontinence in older women
51 women in each group, 12 sessions of transcutaeous tibial nerve electrical stimulation, once per week, 30 minutes, associated to Kegel exercises and bladder retraining versus Kegel exercises and bladder retraining without electrical stimulation.
Urge urinary Incontinence
Women older than 60 years old
Previous Radiotherapy
Genital prolapse greater than grade II (B
Quality of life improvement through ICIQ-SF questionnaire.
Reduction of nocturia episodes though bladder diary - 72 hours. 12 month efficacy through long term subjective satisfaction.
Use of microRNAs in patients with Chagas disease
Determination of the prognostic value of the expression profile of micro RNAs in patients with Chagas disease
The 60 patients will be evalluated on a specialized clinics for Chagas disease and will undergo laboratory tests, chest X-ray , ECG , stress test, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, Holter, filling of quality of life questionnaires and dosage microRNAs by ELISA in order to evaluate the correlation of its concentration and predefined variables. The tests will be done just once.
Chagas disease confirmed by 2 different serological tests; optimized drug therapy; NYHA functional class II-III-IV or patients with the indeterminate form; patients of any gender and aged 18 to 70 years.
Valvulopathy with hemodynamic consequences; chronic use of immunosuppressive agents; renal failure on current treatment by dialysis; acute infections or systemic infections in accordance with the definition of sepsis ACCP/SCCM (American College of Chest Phisicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine); abuse alcohol or illicit drugs (Based on DSM IV), any comorbidity with impact on survival in two years; liver, pulmonary, hematologic, neoplastic, bone, inflammatory or infectious diseases.
Expected outcome: change in the expression profile of microRNAs on the chagasic patients in comparison to healthy patients, verified by PCR, observing a change in 10% in this expression profile.
Expected outcome: change in the expression profile of microRNAs on patients with cardiac fibrosis in comparison to patients without fibrosis, verified by PCR, observing a change in 10% in this expression profile.
A Phase II Study of Dasatinib Therapy in Children and Adolescents with Ph+ Leukemia
with Resistance or Intolerance to Imatinib
A Phase II Study of Dasatinib Therapy in Children and Adolescents with Ph+ Leukemia
with Resistance or Intolerance to Imatinib
Eligible subjects with CP-CML (Cohort #1 and Cohort #3) will receive dasatinib at 60 mg/m2 QD (with a maximum dose of 100 mg QD for subjects with high BSA) on a continuous oral regimen. Eligible subjects with Ph+ ALL, AP-CML or BP-CML (Cohort #2) will receive dasatinib at a dose schedule of 80 mg/m2 QD (with a maximum dose of 140 mg QD for subjects with high BSA) on a continuous oral regimen.
Subjects in all cohorts will be treated for a minimum of 24 months. Furthermore, protocol therapy will be discontinued at any time in case of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity
Written informed consent from subject, or from parents or legal guardians for
minor subjects, according to local law and regulation.
WOCBP who are unwilling or unable to use an acceptable method to avoid
pregnancy for the entire study period and for up to 12 weeks after the last dose of
Cohort #1: Best Major Cytogenetic Response (MCyR) rate, defined as the proportion of all treated subjects who achieve a complete or partial cytogenetic response on study. Cohort #2: Complete Hematologic Response (CHR) rate, defined as the proportion of all treated subjects who achieve a confirmed CHR on study. Cohort #3: Complete Cytogenetic Response (CCyR) rate, defined as the proportion of all treated subjects who achieve a CCyR on study.
Cohort #1 and Cohort #3: best CHR rates Cohort #2: best MCyR rates For all Cohorts:    Rates of best cytogenetic response    Duration of and time to cytogenetic and hematologic response.    Progression-free Survival (PFS) and Disease free survival (DFS)    Overall Survival
Defense mechanisms evaluation in abstinent smokers
Participation of Th1/Th2 cytokines and mucociliary clearance in current and abstinent smokers
Were included 30 smokers enrolled in the Anti Smoking Guidance and Awareness Program from Faculty of Science and Technology of São Paulo State University, which consisted of lectures, video presentations and conducting group dynamics in order to keep participants motivated to quit smoking. The frequency of meetings was 2 times per week in the first month (until the agreed date of participants smoking cessation), and decreased for the second month in weekly, fortnightly for the third month and monthly up to one year follow-up. After beginning the approach to smoking cessation, 5 subjects withdrew from the program. Of those who remained, 14 were able to quit smoking and composed the abstinent group and 11 failed, but continued participating in the Program, composing the active smokers group.
Even those who do not succeed in stopping smoking continued to be met and their approach was in order to prepare them to resume treatment with the next group that was formed.
Smokers with at least 20 years of smoking; both sexes; apparently healthy; enrolled in the Smoking Cessation Programme from Faculty of Sciences and Technology of São Paulo State University
Diagnosis cystic fibrosis, bronchiectasis, immotile cilia syndrome, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, smoking-related diseases, history of nasal surgery or trauma
When the variables behavior after 30 days of smoking abstinence were compared, it was found that abstinent smokers presented improvement of mucociliary clearance and blood serum TNFalfa concentrations. There was no difference in the behavior of inflammatory markers IL6, IL8 and IL10 in nasal lavage and blood serum, as well as TNFalpha in nasal lavage.
exCO and HbCO (carboxyhemoglobin) decreased in abstinent group in relation to current smokers.
Physiotherapy approach to cellulite and preoperative and postoperative abdomen surgery
Evaluation and Physical therapy in women with fibro geloid edema and preoperative and postoperative abdominoplasty
experimental group cellulite: 10 women with cellulite grade II, held ten consecutive sessions of RPG, once a week, lasting about 60 minutes each session, in three positions: Frog on the ground, in the air and frog sitting frog. Control group: 10 women with cellulite without achieving any kind of intervention. experimental group abdominoplasty: 10 women undergoing abdominoplasty who underwent postural assessment in two stages (pre-operative and post treatment with RPG), there were 10 RPG sessions, once a week for 10 consecutive weeks lasting lasting about 60 minutes each. Control group: 10 women undergoing abdominoplasty, with pre and post operative posture, without any intervention.
Group cellulite: Healthy volunteers; gender female; aged between 18 and 40 years; with asymmetry of cellulite in the gluteus; with pelvic tilting. Group abdominoplasty: Healthy volunteers; gender female; aged between 18 and 40 years; undergoing abdominoplasty.
Group cellulite: pregnant women; those with maintenance impossibility of bipedalism for prolonged periods.
Improves pelvic leveling and EGF aspect on the left gluteo after ten sessions of RPG assessed by postural assessment software SAPO and the fotonumérica scale proposed by Hexel, respectively where we observed improvement in pelvic leveling now 3.62 to 0.67 in the pre intervention in the post intervention and EGF aspect of improvement in left gluteo which went from 10.33 to 8.66 in the pre intervention in the post intervention.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Evaluation of the ability of different methods and measures in critically ill patients to check the possibility of withdrawal of mechanical ventilation
Serial measurements before and after extubation of the index of rapid shallow breathing as a predictor of extubation failure in patients on prolonged mechanical ventilation
45 patients will be evaluated through the collection of the index of rapid shallow breathing (IRRS) daily during the period in which the patient remains in weaning. When weaning is completed and the patient able to be extubated second medical evaluation, he will undergo a spontaneous breathing for 30 min and the IRRS will again be evaluated before the test start spontaneous breathing and 30 min after its start
All patients admitted to the ICU during the period of the study;
Largest 18 years;
Patients with a history of tracheal or laryngotracheal;
Patients tracheotomized;
Expected to form two distinct groups: patients who had successful withdrawal of mechanical ventilation and patients who had failed in withdrawal of mechanical ventilation. To analyze the outcome will be used to index rapid, shallow breathing where it is expected that patients with the index> 105 failure to have withdrawal of mechanical ventilation and index <105 succeed in withdrawal of mechanical ventilation
It is expected that the value of the index of rapid shallow breathing obtained with the patient using ventilatory support is less than the value of the same index obtained with the patient breathing spontaneously disconnected from the ventilator
Analysis of low level laser therapy in the treatment of patients with fibromyalgia
Analysis of low level laser therapy in the treatment of patients with fibromyalgia
Twenty patients divided into treatment group (TG, n=10) and placebo group (PG, n=10). The TG was submitted to low level laser GaAlAs (Gallium Arsenide and Aluminum) 670 nm, 4 J/cm2 in the 18 predetermined anatomical sites, called tender points, 3 times a week for 4 weeks. The evaluation was made by specific form, Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), Medical Outcome Survey Short-Form 36 (SF-36), McGill Pain Questionnaire and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of pain. 
Clinical diagnosis of fibromyalgia;
Age between 20 and 80 years;
Don´t have
Possible improvement in the symptom of pain in patients with fibromyalgia, as measured by the McGill Pain Questionnaire and the visual analog scale. The McGill Pain Questionnaire consists of 78 words used to describe pain, qualitatively similar, grouped into four categories: sensory-discrimativo, sensory, affective, cognitive and miscellaneous. It is expected to reduce the contents of this questionnaire. The visual analog scale of pain consists of a line of 10 cm, where 0 represents no pain and 10 representing the worst pain imaginable, and is recommended for adults. It is expected that the reduction in the scale. Moreover, it is expected to reduce the number of tender points, measured between the initial and final assessment.
Increase the quality of life as measured by the SF-36 and FIQ. The SF-36 includes eight scales: physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, bodily pain, general health perceptions, vitality, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems, and mental health. Shows a final score of 0-100, where "0" is the worst overall health status and "100" the best general health. It is expected an increase in the score of the questionnaire. The FIQ evaluates 10 domains: physical functioning, wellness, work absenteeism, difficulties at work, pain, fatigue, stiffness, sleep disturbances, anxiety and depression. There are 11 items ranked by the Likert scale, which involves values from 0 (always) to 3 (never). It is expected to decrease the score of the questionnaire.
Effects of weightlifting and aerobic training on bofy fat and laboratory blood tests in adolescents with overweight and obesity
Effect of resistance and aerobic training program on body composition, lipid profile and high sensitive c-reactive protein of overweight and obese adolescents
The intervention group (IG), composed by 23 adolescents, performeded combined training (resistance more aerobic training) plus nutritional intervention. The combined training routine was held three times a week, during 16 weeks in which the resistance training had 30 minutes duration and aerobic 33 minutes totaling 63 minutes per session. Participants in the intervention group (IG) were asked to reverse the order of the type of exercise in each session: in a session begins with resistance training and the other with aerobic. Resistance training protocol following a split system in two stages. The first consists of the first two weeks of adaptation and learning to use the equipment, weights and dumbbells in the weight room environment. This step consists of a frequency of three times a week on nonconsecutive days, two sets of 15 to 20 repetitions, performing eight to 10 exercises per session, with breaks between sets one minute, lasting 30 minutes per day divided into five minutes of heating and / or stretching, 20 minutes of weight training and five minutes back to calm. After the adaptation period to resistance training, the load was adjusted by increasing the weight and intensity, with the decrease in the number of maximum repetitions (RM) divided into three sets of eight to 12 repetitions maximum interval of one to two minutes between series. The load intensity was determined by perceived exertion after the last repetition (8-10) and was adjusted weekly. Aerobic training happened prior to or subsequent to resistance training and consists of 10 minutes of warm-up on a cycle ergometer at an intensity of 70% to 80% of maximum heart rate (HRmax) prior to 4 periods of 3 minutes (4 x 3) to 90-95% of HRmax with 2 minutes active range to 70-80% of HRmax of each 3-minute period ending with 5 minutes back to calm after the last 3 minutes of the period, totaling 33 minutes. About nutritional intervention, participants in the IG will responded to three 24-hour recalls (R24) applied on alternate days, including a day of the weekend to obtain average consumption of calories, fat and fiber weekly. Dietary prescription followed the recommendations of the energy distribution of macronutrients 15-20% protein, 50-55% carbohydrate and 30% fat and will be adapted individually to reduce daily energy consumption by approximately 250 kcal. The control group (CG), composed by 22 adolescents, was not submit to any intervention, but participated in all evaluation procedures. The evaluation procedures were carried out at baseline, after eight weeks and at the end of 16 weeks. Anthropometric measurements (body mass, height, waist circumference and skinfold thickness) were examined at the place where the intervention happened, Centro Municipal de Controle à Obesidade Jansen Jefferson Diógenes e Medeiros. Body mass (kg) was determined in electronic digital scale portable Tanita® (Ironman BC 553, USA) with an accuracy of 0.100 kg. For height was used a Sanny® stadiometer (Personal Portable Caprice, Brazil) to the nearest 0.1 cm. The Body Mass Index (BMI) was given by the ratio of body mass by the square of height (kg / m / m), with the cutoff points indices proposed by the World Health Organization. The waist circumference was measured by an anthropometric measuring tape Sanny® to the nearest 0.1 cm. The sum of skinfolds (?SFT) was determined by triceps and subscapularis skin fold tickness protocol measured by scientific adipometer Sanny® with accuracy of 0.1 mm. All measures were taken in triplicate (three times). Blood tests were carried out at Centro de Análises Clínicas e Imunológicas de Mossoró (CACIM). 5 ml blood samples were collected around 7:00 am after 12 hours of fasting. The fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, high and low density lipoproteins (HDL-C and LDL-C) and total cholesterol were assessed by enzymatic colorimetric method according to the specifications of the manufacturers in Roche® Automatics (Hitachi 917 Automated, Switzerland). LDL-C was calculated from the Friedewald formula (LDL-C = TC - HDL-C - TG / 5), valid for lower triglyceride levels than 400 mg/dl. The high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) was measured by immunoturbidimetric method with particles labeled with two applications, according to the manufacturer
Adolescents of both sexes; aged between 12 and 15 years old; being overweight and obesity according to the cutoff points proposed by the World Health Organization; no history of previous experience with resistance exercises or systematic program of aerobic exercises
Attest use of tobacco, alcohol or other drugs; present some limitation that prevents the execution of any exercise; pregnancy; present endocrineisease; be making chronic drug use 
Reduction in body fat percentage and central obesity, measured by skinfold method and waist circumference, respectively, at the beginning and end of the study
Reduction of the inflammatory marker high sensitive c-reactive protein performed by ELISA to values less than 2.5 mg/dL after 16 weeks.
Evaluation of a type of therapy for the treatment of vaginal pain during intercourse.
Electrical stimulation of the pelvic floor in the treatment of women with chronic vulvar pain
Group 1- 32 subjects were submitted to electrical stimulation with interferential current (4000Hz, MFA 110Hz, 60Hz DAMF) for 20 minutes at the rate 1-2 times per week, total of 8 sessions.
 Group 2  - 32 volunteers underwent the same treatment protocol in group 1, but the electric current was not issued, and the placebo group.
 Women with vulvodynia symptons, for, at least 6 months
 Women with positive test for vulvodynia 
 Women who use intrauterine device
 Pregnancy
Improved sexual function score evaluated by the Female Sexual Function Index;  Improvement in pain on examination evaluated by visual analog scale
Improved intravaginal basal tone, the maximum force of contraction of the vaginal muscles, and the resistance of the vaginal muscles, assessed before and after treatment using electromyographic analysis (uV) and pressure (mmHg) with the device Miotool.
Analysis of genetic information from men with and without varicocele
Sperm transcriptome profile in men with and without varicocele 
Experimental group: six men with varicocele have their sperm RNAs sequenced to quantify the gene expression, through large-scale sequencing technique (RNA-seq), divided into two groups: group A, composed of three patients with varicocele grade III with normal spermogram; group B, three patients with varicocele grade III with abnormal semen analysis.
Control group: six men without varicoceles will have their sperm sequenced RNAs for quantification of gene expression, through large-scale sequencing technique (RNA-seq), divided into two groups: C group, consisting of three proven fertile patients; Group D, three infertile patients.
Study group: men that have varicocele in grades II and III; aged between 18 and 45 years; not having done previous surgery correction of the disease.
Control groups: men aged between 18 and 45 years; fertility proven by having at least two children; and selected men from couples with infertility for male factor or unexplained infertility.
Smoking; excessive use of alcohol; drug abuse; genetic damage; prior varicocele correction surgery; testicular trauma; urogenital infections suspicion; cancer; endocrinopathies; treatments that may influence the testicular functions.
Difference in the profile of transcripts in sperm of patients with varicocele, compared to fertile and infertile men, verified by RNA-seq technique from finding a variation of at least 5% compared between groups.
Selection of candidate genes to identify differential gene expression between the groups with and without varicocele by real time PCR methodology based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% compared between groups.
Human semen freezing : Effects of adding lipids and antioxidants in the quality of sperm
Human semen cryopreservation: effect of lipid and antioxidant supplementation on sperm viability
Intervention group: 63 men with normal semen parameters, evaluated by a sperm. The semen will be divided into two equal volumes, in which half will be frozen with the medium cryoprotectants currently used and the other half with cryoprotectants tested in the project. After a time the semen is thawed, re-analyzed by a semen analysis and compared the results to evaluate the freezing media.

Control group: the frozen semen with the environment cryoprotectants currently used will control for frozen semen with the environment cryoprotectants tested in the project.
Men aged 18-40 years; able to collect the semen by masturbation ; are prior to sexual abstinence of at least two days
Semen volume smaller than 1.5 ml; concentration less than 15 million sperm / mL ; motility less than 32 %
The frozen semen with the environment cryoprotectants tested in the project presents fewer sperm with fragmented DNA, verified by the TUNEL test.
The membrane of the sperm frozen with cryoprotectants tested through the project has adhered lipids that come from the environment, checked by scanning electron microscopy.
 Assessment pityriasis versicolor´s treatmenmt comparing Ketoconazol 2 % cream with Benzoyl Peroxide cream 5% isolateds and with these two together in cream  
Randomized double blind clinical trial to compare Ketoconazol 2 % with Benzoyl Peroxide 5% isolatedly and one of  them isolatedly with both together in Pityriasis Versicolor treatment 
Group1- Experimental group- Ketoconazol 2% with benzoyl peroxide 5% cream- Apply over the lesions at night for thirty nights.(108 patients)
Group2-Control group-Ketoconazol 2% cream- Apply over the lesions at night for thirty nights.(108 patients)
Voluntary, mael or femael; age 18 years old or more who has clinical  of pityriasis versicolor and agree to take part in the study by consent information term
Patients who referring positive HI;, diabetic; pregnant; patient who taken immunossupressor
  Absence of the disease in 3 months and in 1 year verifiabel by physical exam and micological direct test over 75% of patients 3 months after treatment and over 45 % of patients 1 year after treatment.
 Verification of the cure checked by absence of spots and if they are present for the negative micological test. 
Home fortification of complementary feeding in Brazil: a multicenter pragmatic trial
Effectiveness of home fortification with vitamins and minerals for the prevention of iron deficiency and anemia in infants younger than 1 year of age: a multi-center study of Brazilian cities.
Intervention group: 675 infants aged 6-8 months at recruitment from basic health care (traditional and health Family programs)will receive 60 multiple micronutrient powder (MNP)to be given once a day with semi-solid foods (fruit puree or salty meals) during 60 days.  The composition of each sachet (1g): Iron 10 mg, Zinc 4,1 mg, Folate 150 µg, Vitamin A 400 µg RE, Vitamin C 30 mg, Vitamin D3 5 µg,Vitamin E 5 mg TE, Vitamin B1 0,5 mg, Vitamin B2 0,5 mg, Vitamin B6 0,5 mg, Vitamin B12 0,9 µg, Niacin 6 mg, Cupper 0,56 mg, Iodine 90 µg, Selenium 17 µg.


Control group: 675 infants aged 12-14 months attending at the current usual basic health care (traditional and health Family programs)attending at the current routine care with ferrous sulfate supplementation. 
Intervention group: infants between 6 and 8 months at the enrollment(6 months before outcome measures) 
Control group: infants between 12 and 14 months at outcome measures 
Reported cases of malaria, positive for  HIV, tuberculosis, hemoglobinopathies, and in treatment for anemia.
A mean diference in the blood hemoglobin of at least 6 g/L  
Decreased prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency.
Effects of telephone interventions on adherence to receive the results of examination of prevention of cervical cancer
Effects of educational and behavioral intervention by telephone on accession to receive the Pap smear report
Experimental group 1: 171 women participated in an educational intervention (cognitive). In addition to the usual services, it has offered women an educational intervention by phone, whose dialogue established in the telephone approach was conducted according to the principles of motivational interviewing. The telephone call was divided into phases: Presentation researcher approach to the user through open questions, request permission to inform, initial evocation, exchange of educational information and recall to finish. The phases mentioned the educational approach occurred in a single telephone call, lasting about ten to fifteen minutes a week before the due date for the return of women to drive.

Experimental group 2: 170 women received, in addition to the usual services, a behavioral intervention (reminder call), whose contents consisted of the notice of the date and time of the return a week before the due date. Behavioral intervention proposed in this study aims to serve as a reminder (reinforcement) for the date of a return visit.
Have initiated sexual activity; take the examination for the prevention of cervical cancer in the period of data collection and own mobile or landline.
A minor; present some pathology related to mental processes, speech articulation or hearing that it would not answer the questionnaire and to participate in educational or behavioral intervention; not have done for any reason, the Pap test.
Return to the search for colpocitopatológico report. Seen from the difference between the percentage of no return between the behavioral groups, educational and compared, analyzed by chi-square Pearson. It was also compared the ranges of days for the return of each group through the Pearson chi-square. All these data were analyzed from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the measurements between the groups.
Factors related to the non-attendance of women to consultation return (age in years, schooling in years of study, early sex life in years, marital status, income in reals, occupation, place of residence, gynecological complaints, cancer family history , previous participation in educational groups, the preventive test and return in the last collection). Categorical data were compared in percentage by means of chi-square test. The scale variables were compared in its average value.
Effects of green tea on physical conditioning in young untrained
Velocity of ventilatory anaerobic threshold and heart rate variability after acute supplementation of the main componets of green tea in young untrained: randomized controlled trial

Experimental groups: 40 untrained young  will take only one caffeine pill (n=20; 100 mg) or one green tea extract pill (Camellia sinensis) (n=20; 500 mg). Control group: 20 untrained young will take one placebo pill (100 mg of maltodextrin). All the participants take the single dose of pill 30 minutes before the treadmill-test protocol
Youngs of both genders, aged between 20-35, insufficient active by International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ)

No additional orthopedic deficiencies impairing ambulation
Diabetic individuals
A non-linear increase in ventilatory anaerobic threshold in volunteers that had taken the green tea pill. To the ventilatory anaerobic threshold assessment will be used a gases analysis equipment. To the verification of this outcome, will be considered a variation of at least 10% in relation to caffeine group and 20% in relation to placebo group
An increase of at least 20% in heart rate variability, verified by heart monitor, in volunteers that had taken the green tea pill in relation to caffeine group and 30% in relation group to placebo group 
Comparison of Two Types of Training in Physical and Organic Performance
Effects of Concentric vs Eccentric Resistance Training in Clinical, Functional, Cardiovascular and Biological Parameters
80 subjects was randomized to 4 groups of 20. G1: Single working session with emphasis on maximal strength and concentric contraction. G2: Single working session with emphasis on maximum force and eccentric contraction. G3: 10 sessions with progressive loads of 80% the maximum force (two last sessions) and emphasis in concentric contraction. G4: 10 sessions with progressive loads of 80% of maximum force (two last sessions) and emphasis on eccentric contraction. The total period of intervention and analysis was 4 weeks. Will be analyzed values of muscle strength, heart rate, creatine kinase and pain after the total period of both stimuli and compared the responses of groups. The objective of the study is to assess the effects of two types of resistance training (concentric and eccentric), for the knee extensor group on acute responses of variables: isotonic and isometric muscle strength, flexibility, pain, feeling exertion, blood markers (CK, TNF-alpha and cortisol), blood pressure, heart rate and its variability. The isotonic muscle strength is assessed using 1MR for the quadriceps and the force isometric dynamometer using digital portable. Pain was assessed by visual analog scale (VAS) and a pressure algometer, expressed in Kg/f feeling exertion by Borg Scale. Flexibility (bending the knee) was assessed using a goniometer. Regarding blood parameters, 10 ml of blood taken by a professional expert for analysis of markers in a spectrophotometer. Heart rate and its variability were measured using the Polar - S810i and blood pressure was measured indirectly. The details of the intervention is as follows: Both groups received training and two did not. The groups that did not receive training were called 
Adults with age between 18 and 30 years old, be male, self declared healthy and no medical restriction for physical activity, classified as physically active by IPAQ (International Physical Activity Questionnaire)
Subjects with cardiovascular, respiratory and/or metabolic disorders, alcoholic, smokers, injury episode osteoarticular or muscle-tendon in the lower limbs and/or column in the last year and did participate in weight-training program for at least 6 months.
Outcomes Found: Gain of strength in eccentric exercise compared to their control. Best power for the training groups. Increased sensitivity and pain in the control groups in relation to training. Higher concentrations of Ck in the control group compared to concentric training. HR recovery between 1 and 3 minutes after exercise in any type of contraction. 
outcomes found Greater benefit - cost in favor to the eccentric trained group relative to its control. Greater number of positive responses in eccentric training group compared with other groups considering all variables
Effect of Music on Weight Gain of Premature Infants
The effect of Music on weight gain of Premature hospitalized infants 
Intervention group: 31 prematures were submitted to multimodal stimulation with music during seven consecutive days. Each daily session lasts 15 min, and it was composed by auditory stimulation (music recorded,light classical,with low amplitudes, simple rhythms, like those of Mozart),tactile (firm, slow and constant massage, from proximal regions to distal ones), vestibular (in the lap of the therapist, the child was placed ina a net made of bed sheet in the supine position e was slowly elevated to the semi-sitting position), and visual stimulation (card with high contrast colours was positioned at a distance of 20 cm from the child, observing with the card stopped if there was visual fixation and then move it to see if there was visual tracking). The stimulation was realized in a quiet room, with controlled lighting and noise level (55db), in the afternoon (after child feeding and sleeping), and the child on alert inactive state.
The feed was offered at each 3 hours, and the body weight was taken daily at 05h30min.
Preterm infants with post-conceptional age greater than or equal to 32 weeks.
Normal hearing by evoked otoacoustic emissions bilaterally.
Presence of severe hypoxia, intracranial hemorrhage, pulmonary,cardiac, and neurological problems, malformations and syndromes
Presence of clinical complications during the study period, as signs of respiratory distress, diarrhea or reflux
Observed outcome  At baseline,the two groups showed no significant weight difference. At the end of the study, the average body weight of the experimental group was significantly higher than that of the control (x 156,2g 110,5g; p = 0.002), with no significant difference in energy consumption (207.4 x 218.8 kcal; p=0,46).          
Observed outcome  During the treatment, the experimental group showed lower relationship presence/absence of signs of stress (0.07) compared to the control (0.28), p = 0.007.
Identification of risk of accidents in healthy elderly and with Parkinson
Identification of risk of accidents in healthy elderly and with Parkinson
20 healthy elderly and 20 elderly with Parkinson
No pain, fracture, or serious injury to soft tissues in the 6 months previous to the study; no history of cognitive, respiratory or cardiovascular disorders not controlled; elderly with Parkinson
Individuals who present uncontrolled cardiovascular changes; to present score lower than 24 on the Mini Mental State Examination that will be applied before the collections.
It is expected that elderly with Parkinson's disease present kinematic variables different than that presented by healthy elderly in the 3 different conditions that they will be subjected. For it will be used GAITRite system that informs data of the step length, step width, gait speed, cadence and step time, while performing gait in prefered speed; gait during street crossing simulation with normal time in pedestrian traffic light; gait during street crossing simulation with reduced time in pedestrian traffic light. The values of the collected data will be presented as means and standard deviations and the significance level for all statistical tests will be set at p lower than 0.05.
Check for risk of falls in elderly healthy and with Parkinson's disease during street crossing simulation. For it, it will be compared the gait kinematic variables in prefered speed and gait during street crossing simulation. If the data of step length, step width and gait speed were significantly lower (p lower than 0.05) in gait during street crossing simulation than in gait with prefered speed, may indicate risk of falls.
Eficacy and safety study of drug that contains Pycnogenol which is used to treat spot on the skin
Randomized, double-blind clinical study in order to assess the tolerability and dermatological efficacy of a drug that contains Pycnogenol, which is used to treat Melasma
Control group:  50 patients will use a test drug placebo once daily and will apply sunscreen  on face 30 minutes before  solar exposure whenever it is necessary.
The treatment will last 3 months
100 participants; age range 25-65 years old; female; fitzpatrick skin types II and III;
patients with facial melasma; without any other cutaneous disease; without previous reaction to topical product; the patient should agree with the study-related procedures and the determinated days and time of  appointments; Reading; understanding; agreement and signature of patient on the written informed free consent form.
Pregnancy; lactation; hormonal therapy within the last 4 weeks; use of photosensitizing  drug; any melasma treatment in the same time;intensive solar exposure within the last 15 days and during the study; cutaneous marks on the experimental area that might  interfere with cutaneous reaction evaluation; use of corticoide until 30 days before the selection and during the study;endocrine dysfunction; use of cosmetic products that might cause any facial irritation , even if it is mild such as exfoliating and antiaging products; other conditions that may  be considered by doctors as a reason for disqualification of patient’s participation in the study

Reduction the intensity and extent of the facial melasma after 12 weeks of treatment, determined by MASI scale (Melasma Severity Index and area). The treatment with the herbal will be considered superior to the placebo, the lower limit of 95% confidence interval is greater than 0.5 for MASI variable.
Improves the participant's quality of life will be assessed by applying the MELASQoL. The treatment with the herbal will be considered superior to the placebo, the lower limit of 95% confidence interval is greater than 0.5 to MelasQol variable.; Herbal safety will be assessed by the amount of reported adverse events.
Laparoscopic uterine removal: comparison between three abdominal incisions
Laparoscopic Hysterectomy: comparative study between Multiport and Single Port Laparoscopy
Two groups were studied: 21 patients were submitted to  laparoscopic hysterectomy with three punctions and 21 patients were submitted to laparoscopic hysterectomy with single umbilical incision. Surgery time, blood loss, inflammatory response, postoperative pain, surgical complications and quality of life were analyzed and compared between the groups.  
age between 35 and 65 years old; benign uterine disease with indication of hysterectomy; no reproductive interest; uterine volume until 600cm3
coagulopathy; chronic use of anti-inflammatory drugs; suspicion of uterine malignancy; contra-indication of general anesthesia or pneumoperitonio; genital prolapse; incapacity of read or understand the informed consent
The operative time was significantly longer in the SP-TLH group than in the M-TLH group. In terms of blood loss, inflammatory responses, pain, complications and quality of life both techniques were similar. We observed three cases of umbilical hernia in single-port group, 12 months after  surgery.
We noticed 3 cases of umbilical hernia in the HLU group. In the HLM group, there was none.
Use of citrate content dialysate in patients on hemodialysis
Effects of the use of citrate content dialysate on the extracorporeal anticoagulation in maintenance hemodialysis
Patients will be randomized to undergo to 12 consecutive dialysis sessions in each arm:
A) Hemodialysis using 4.0 mEq/L acetate buffer dialisate and heparin dose 100 IU/Kg.
Patients older than 18 years of age, both genders, on maintenance hemodialysis, without major comorbidities.
Prescription of hemodialysis shorter than 3h 30 min.
Use of oral anticoagulant.
Loss of the dialyzer before 12th use due to clotting of blood in the extracorporeal circuit or reduction of fiber bundle volume >20% of baseline.
Reduction of hemodialysis efficiency assessed by the urea Kt/V at 1st, 6th and 12th dialysis sessions of each phase.  Incidence of hypocalcemia or hypomagnesemia in each phase of the study. 
Laser Acupuncture to Temporomandibular Disorder Treatment
Adjuvant Laser Acupuncture to Occlusal Splint Therapy: A Controlled Trial in Temporomandibular Disorders Patients
In order to reduce the likelihood of systematic errors and allow the use of statistical tests, there will be a simple procedure of random allocation of subjects of this research, which will be  distributed in two groups of 20 subjects by drawing lots. Each group will receive a specific treatment modality for TMD defined as follows: 1) Group Therapy - neuromuscular relaxing splint and laser acupuncture. 2) Control Group - neuromuscular relaxing relaxing splint and placebo laser. Within each group, the therapeutic will be maintained until the end of the study, the patients being aware voluntary and consistent with the possibility of receiving one of two proposed therapies (therapeutic or placebo), were not informed during the processing of their nature therapies. At the end of the study, patients receiving a placebo therapy may undergo therapy for active laser acupuncture if they have persistent symptoms or if they wish. Simple randomisation by using sealed opaque envelope is assumed. In each subject is assigned a sealed opaque envelope, where information about the group to which belong will be contained. The number of envelopes for the therapeutic group is equal to the control group,the envelopes being identical with each other. The draw will be conducted by a person without any link to the survey, which will be in the custody of groups and their participants, the researcher revealed only when the first therapeutic application. Describe the methods used to generate the sequence in which subjects will be randomised (sequence generation):
Simple randomisation by using a randomisation table created by computer software (SPSS for Windows 13.0) through computerised sequence generation. Study Group Intervention: Low intensity laser acupuncture to  temporomandibular disorder treatment, directed to study group. The acupuncture points: S6, SI19, GB20, LI4, L3, SJ3, GB34, Ex-3, low power (50mW) infrared laser, for 90s each, with the objective of sedation. Laser acupuncture therapy will happen weekly in one-hour sessions. It will begin at february,4, 2011. Laser treatment is continuous and punctual, directed at each point for a period of 90 seconds. Twelve weekly sessions will complete three months of treatment. The laser acupuncture therapy will follow the standards of protection for the use of lasers, including the protection of patients
All subjects participated in this study volunteers by signing the consent. Female subjects. Aged between 20 and 40. Irrespective of race, creed or social level. Presence of a diagnosis of myofascial pain and arthralgia orofacial chronic, persisting for a minimum period of six months. Minimum intensity of muscle and joint pain of 4.0 points, measured in the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) during the first evaluation.
Subjects with evidence of muscle diseases, rheumatic and joint systemic origin, such as fibromyalgia and rheumatoid arthritis. Presence of fungal skin changes, hyperplastic, erythematous keloid or continuity in areas related to acupuncture points. Medical, pharmacological, psychological or physical therapy for temporomandibular disorder (TMD), concomitant therapies introduced in this study. Pregnants, the possible influence of intrauterine contraction and movement promoted by some acupuncture points such as LI4. Report or finding of facial trauma as a possible etiology of temporomandibular disorder. Individuals who have undergone prior treatment with neuromuscular relaxing plate, acupuncture or laser therapy for temporomandibular disorder. Subject denture wearers an upper or lower. Individuals with intellectual disability or impairment that would hinder the collection of data.
Physical symptoms evaluation before the intervention and after 1, 2 and 3 months after the intervention. Measurement of muscle and joint pain orofacial by applying the visual analogue scale to palpation stomatognathic sites . At each time, the average intensity of pain experienced by each group will be mensured. The provision of these temporal averages (moments of 0, 1, 2 and 3) will prepare the development of physical symptoms in each group. This evolution will be compared between the groups in order to verify the effectiveness of proposed therapies.
Diagnostic Criteria for Temporomandibular Disorders Research (RDC / TMD, Axis II) to assess the psychosocial impact of emotional distress associated to temporomandibular disorder. Levels of depression and no specific sumptoms (somatization) will be  measured through SCL 90R questionary, contained in RDC/DTM. This instrument will be applied before and after institution of therapy in each group. A comparison of symptoms of somatization and depression in the two instances indicate a possible change of these symptoms.
Clinical research of pain during restorative treatment in adults using a topical anesthetic photoactivated
Clinical investigation of intraoperative pain in adults undergoing restorative treatment of non-carious lesions using a topical anesthetic photoactivated
Treatments not carious V class will be held in cervical premolars of 50 patients. The topical anesthetic photoactivated (experimental group) or photoactivated placebo (control group) to be used will be determined by randomization via 2 and 4 blocks, the treatment being conducted is sealed in a dark envelope open only 1 min before intervention. Prior to the intervention will be applied the experimental anesthetic or placebo in the gingival area of ??the tooth to be treated, the quarters will be isolated with cotton rolls and agents administered noninvasively around the tooth and gum (collar 1mm) with the aid of an applicator tip. The product will immediately light cured with the aid of a curing light for 30 seconds. After 2 min clip 212 will be positioned with a door-clamp gripper to verify the adaptation of the same. The perception of pain will soon be evaluated after the test clip 212 before placing the rubber dam through a dichotomous scale prevalence (yes / no), recording the data in the medical record. The intensity of the pain will only be evaluated if the patient reports pain or discomfort. At that moment the clip will be removed and will be used the visual analog scale (VAS), and assigned scores 0 (no pain) to 10 (unbearable pain) and a verbal pain scale (VRS), 5-point scores, and ( 0 = no pain; 1 = mild pain; 2 = moderate pain; 3 = severe pain, 4 = unbearable pain) in which the patient will report their pain. The intervention will be performed first in quadrant 1 when superior arch or quadrant 3 if lower arch. After isolation with a rubber dam, the enamel surface is etched with 37% phosphoric acid for 15 sec, followed by washing with water and drying the surface with compressed air. Double application of the adhesive, the solvent removal with air jet, light curing for 20 s, application of composite resin followed by curing for 40 s. The same procedure will be performed in the quadrant opposite.
Patients over 18 years; with good general and oral health; the premolar teeth should have restorative treatment indication not carious cervical; these non-carious lesions should involve two teeth in different quadrants.
Endodontically treated teeth; destroyed and caries; also excluded are patients with gingivitis; periodontitis and dental mobility; in addition, patients with a history of allergy; any form of sensitivity or allergic reaction to anesthetics and ester-based components of the formula; patients with severe uncontrolled systemic disease (heart problems; neurological; kidney; liver or blood); pregnant or lactating patients.
Expected outcome: Number of patients reporting pain during the placement of a staple for absolute isolation after application of a topical anesthetic photoactivated through self-report. This number will be transformed into percentage of patients with pain and is called absolute risk of pain.
Expected outcome: The pain of the risk will be assessed by dichotomous scale (yes or no) and will be presented as mean and standard deviation.
Effects of supplementation with L-carnitine in the heart of patients who will do coronary artery bypass graft
Effects of supplementation with L-carnitine on ischemia and reperfusion and left ventricular function and remodeling in patients with heart failure after coronary artery bypass surgery
Experimental group: 40 patients / volunteers of both genders, diagnosed with ischemic heart failure receive aqueous solution containing L-carnitine with 50 or 25 mg kg body weight. Control group: 20 patients / volunteers of both genders, diagnosed with ischemic heart failure receive aqueous solution containing placebo. The test and placebo solutions are offered in randomized form, for a period of 30 days. The supplementation will be carried out with patients fasting.
Sixty adult patients; lucid; oriented; both genders; minimum age of 30 years and maximum age of 80 years; diagnostic systolic ischemic heart failure; requiring elective coronary artery bypass surgery; use of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB); Ejection fraction of the left ventricle (LVEF) greater than or equal to 50% (Simpson method); left ventricular end-diastolic volume (LV Diastolic) greater than 150 mL / m²; end of the left ventricle systolic volume (LV Systolic) greater than 65 ml / m².
During treatment develop liver dysfunction; renal dysfunction; malabsorptive syndrome; stroke; sepsis; prolonged hemodynamic shock; Patients who discontinue supplementation.
Reduction of at least 5% in the pre and post-intervention measurements by echocardiographic method remodeling and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. To this volume are measured (mL) and weight (g), the wall thickness of the left ventricle (cm) and systolic and diastolic left ventricular (%).
Secondary outcomes are expected not.
Prepared platelets and tranexamic acid knee prosthesis surgery
Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) and Tranexamic Acid (TXA) Applied in Total Knee Arthroplasty
Group 1 (25 patients): total prosthesis of the knee and at the end, before the closure of the capsule articular, topical application of 6 ml of platelet-rich plasma, prepared from 20 ml of the patient
Volunteers with knee osteoarthritis Severa and indication of total knee prosthesis for treatment
inflammatory diseases; hematological diseases; great deformities; use of anticoagulants previously
expected outcome is less postoperative pain, measurement methods are visual scale of pain with zero to ten notes to the sensation of pain, need for morphine to control the pain
improvement in knee function, through questionnaire Western Ontario e McMaster Universities Osteoartrite Index validated for the Portuguese language applied in pre operative and after 2 months, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months
Effect of mirror therapy associated with functional tasks in arm function after stroke
Effect of mirror therapy associated with functional tasks in arm function after stroke: a randomised clinical trial
Participants will be divided at randomly into experimental group and control group. The mirror box used in training is made of wood, open at the top with a mirror arranged perpendicularly to the center and slightly tilted. Both groups will perform the exercise protocol three times a week for one hour, for a period of 4 weeks. Symmetrical bilateral tasks will be used, directed to an objective task and the difficulty will progress according to predetermined parameters. The tasks used in training involve daily use objects (ball, bottle, etc.) duplicated, sometimes divided at the center and placed on each side of the mirror. Will be used a systematic method of progression specific to each patient, based on the principles of 
This will include individuals who suffered Stroke proven by CT scan or MRI for at least 6 months (chronic phase). Those with motor recovery level 
Will be excluded individuals with other neurological diseases, orthopedic problems in the upper limbs that interfere with the function of these, significant visual impairment not correctable, aphasia or difficulty to understanding simple tasks (eg reach and grasp a bottle); visual hemineglect verified through the Bells Test; members of other research or therapy involving the upper limbs.
Upper extremity performance test for the elderly (Tempa):The scores obtained by the observer are based on speed of execution, functional level and functional analysis of the tasks performed. The scores refers to the functional independence of each individual task, being graded according to a four-level scale (0= completes the task until 3 = can not complete the task). The analysis of tasks 0 to 3 quantifies the difficulties encountered by the subject, according to five items: strength, range of motion, precision of broad movements, grip and precision of fine movements. This instrument will be evaluated by films by an evaluator blind to the training group and the sequence of films. There will be an assessment before and after training and 2 weeks of follow-up. The bilateral and unilateral tasks of the TEMPA will be considered separately.
The Modified Ashworth Scale: consists of a scale to verify the tonus of specific muscle groups and grade spasticity. The score ranges from 0 to 4. The groups will be tested: shoulder horizontal adductors, elbow flexors, wrist flexors and fingers. This instrument will be administered by an evaluator blind to the training group. There will be an assessment before and after training and 2 weeks at follow-up evaluation.
Cardiovascular effects of the perineal muscles contractions in pregnant women
Cardiovascular responses to pelvic floor muscle contractions in pregnant women
The women recruited for this study must be aged between 18 and 40 years, normal body mass index (BMI) for gestational age and have a first or second low-risk pregnancy. They will also be recruited non-pregnant women of the same age (18- 30 years), sedentary, and with a normal BMI for the control group. All women may not show the presence of pelvic organ prolapse, pelvic surgery history, medications that influence blood pressure and heart rate, presence of cardiovascular, respiratory and metabolic diseases, diabetes, intolerance to palpation (examination) vaginal and inability to perform muscle contraction. The volunteers in this study will be distribuited into three groups (n = 24 per group): Group of pregnant women with training (PT) - Pregnant women who will perform pelvic floor muscles training (PFMT) during pregnancy after recruitment; group of pregnant women without training (PW) - a group of pregnant women not to perform the PMFT; and control group (CG) - the group of not pregnant women. Pregnant women will be distributed in groups with and without training by your own choosing, for ethical issue. Participants will be recruited from the 18th week of pregnancy, which will be distributed by your choice in groups (PT or PW). All pregnant women will be evaluated for the first time at 18 weeks, and women GC will be evaluated only once, to be marked on the first time of recruitment. First, the volunteers will undergo a standard medical history, which will answer questions about their gynecological and obstetrical history, your lifestyle habits, medication use, as well as functional assessment of the pelvic floor muscles. The functional evaluation of the pelvic floor muscles (MAP) will be held through vaginal palpation, perineometer and electromyography. In vaginal palpation is inserted a finger until the second phalanx in the vaginal canal, graduating muscle contraction force of PFM by the modified Oxford scale (Laycock and Jerwood; 2001). The perineometer will be inserted until the half of the probe is to 3.5cm from inside the vaginal canal and will be evaluated the peak of three maximal voluntary contractions. In electromyography, the probe will be positioned in the vaginal canal with the electrodes in the lateral-lateral position and will be picked up electromyographic signals from three abdominal contractions for data normalization and three maximal voluntary contractions of PFM lasting 5 seconds. Between each contraction of the PFM is given a 1-minute interval for all procedures. Between each device or form of evaluation will be a 5 minute break. In the 19th week of pregnancy will be perform a cardiopulmonary test and evaluation of autonomic modulation and fetal monitoring during contractions of the pelvic floor and postural change. For the analysis of heart rate variability and blood pressure, the volunteers will be positioned in the left lateral position and, after calibration of equipment (Finometer) will be recorded the ECG and peripheral pulse pressure signals for 10 minutes at rest. After that, they should actively move to the standing position, where they will remain for another 10 minutes. The volunteers will breathe normally, but should not talk during the test. After postural change the analysis will be performed during the following steps: a) eight minutes rest; b) ten contractions lasting five seconds and five seconds between each contraction; c) eight minutes rest. The Cardiotocography will be held simultaneously for monitoring the vitality and fetal heart rate. So, there will be an exercise cardiopulmonary symptom-limited test with type protocol ramp electromagnetic braking cycle ergometer (Corival, Lode BV, Groningen, The Netherlands) in the sitting position with knee flexion between 5 and 10 degrees. The test will begin with a minute of rest, followed by three minutes pedaling at free of charge, and started with increments of power at 20W / min to the limitation of symptoms. At the end, there will be an additional 3 minutes pedaling without charge, followed by a minute of rest. It will be measured blood pressure with sphygmomanometer and the volunteers answered the Borg scale every 1 minute test.
18 weeks of pregnancy;age group of 18 to 40; body mass index (BMI) for gestational age according to Atalah Table (Atalah SE et al, 1997).; first or second pregnancy.

High-risk pregnancy; drugs use; prolapse of pelvic organs; history of pelvic surgery; taking drugs that influence BP and HR (beta blockers; calcium channel inhibitors; anti anxiety drugs); vaginal palpation Intolerance (examination);inability to perform muscle contraction (P 
Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and Blood Pressure Variability(BPV): These variables will be evaluated at the 19th and 36th week of gestation, and only once in the non-pregnant group to evaluate the influence of pregnancy, gestational time, contracting and training of the pelvic floor muscles in the variables. It is expected that the autonomic modulation is affected by pregnancy with less variability after postural change and contractions of the pelvic floor in pregnant women, and this greater attenuation in the third trimester. The ECG and peripheral pulse pressure signals will be recorded and stored, beat by beat, during the protocol of perineal exercises and postural change, for further analysis of HRV and BPV. The data will be considered in the frequency domain (linear art): very low frequency bands (MBF - between 0 and 0.04 Hz), low frequency (LF - between 0.04 and 0.15 Hz) and high frequency ( AF - between 0.15 and 0.40 Hz). In this study, we will use the bands LF and HF, which best represent the cardiac sympathetic and vagal modulation, respectively. These spectral components are expressed in absolute units (LF and HF) and in normalized units (LFnu and HFnu), and the LF / HF ratio (ratio between the bands of low frequency and high frequency), indicative of the sympathetic-vagal balance (Task Force, 1996). Symbolic Analysis (nonlinear technique: 1) 0V: no variation pattern [3 identical symbols, for example, (2,2,2) or (4,4,4)]; 2) 1V: pattern with a variation [2 following the same symbols and a different one, e.g., (4,2,2) or (4,4,3)]; 3) 2LV: 2 standard with equal variations [3 symbols form a ramp up or down, for example, (5,4,2) or (1,3,4)]; and 4) 2UV: standard with 2 different variations [3 symbols form a peak or a valley, for example, (4,1,2) or (3,5,3)]. The frequencies of occurrence of these families (0V%, 1W% 2LV% and 2UV%) will be evaluated. Shannon Entropy (nonlinear technique): to provide a qualification complexity of distribution patterns (Porta et al., 2001). The results will be analyzed by comparisons between the groups, with no cut-off values to characterize the events.
Fetal Heart Rate Variability . Variability of the fetal heart rate. During maternal autonomic assessment will also be recorded fetal HRV parameters by cardiotocography for further analysis. We expected to find synchronicity between maternal and fetal parameters.
Response Oxygenation in Premature Newborns with use of Thoracic Elastic Band Positions in Two Body
Effect of Posture Positioning Front Support from Gradil Costal Premature Newborn
The study was conducted in humans. Newborns weighing at least 1.445ge and maximum 2.270ge gestational age 31-35 weeks, without ventilatory pressure and without supplemental oxygen, without blood count changes in cellularity red and white, being in the sector for weight gain. To stabilize the rib cage of newborns, we used the elastic band thoracic (38% cotton, 34% nylon and 28% elastodiene), marked in centimeters horizontally. The chest was wrapped by the band at the end of the inspiratory cycle of movement from this point, the closure strip during the second marking cm. The track was positioned below the nipple line up below the scar onfálica.The preterm infants who participated in this study were submitted to the sequence of postural positions, supine and prone positions. The newborns were subjected both positions by modifying them with and without stabilization of the chest, through the elastic band. So was used to randomly through the draw for the choice of the sequence. The criteria of the study was like 
Newborn premature birth with a minimum weight of 1200g and maximum of 2500g the gestational age of 36 weeks maximum, without ventilatory pressure and without supplemental oxygen, without infection and with good general
Newborns classified as extremely premature, history of apnea, heart disease, congenital malformations, severe anoxia, hydrocephalus, post-abdominal surgery, neonatal infection, term newborns, ranked small for gestational age, use of ventilation system positive pressure
Oxygen saturation values in this study was higher in body positioning that used to stabilize the rib cage through the elastic band
The respiratory rate and heart rate showed with values smaller in body positions that used the elastic band chest
toxicity, and the drug dosing parameters evaluations comparing dispersible tablets of efavirenz and oral liquid in children;
open, randomized study for safety evaluation and pharmacokinetic parameters comparing dispersible tablets and efavirenz oral solution in pediatric population;
All 75 participants remained for 21 consecutive days each tether:

Age greater than or equal to 3 years and less than 13 years old; weight between 7.5 and 35kg, HIV infection confirmed, documented by positive results from two samples collected at different times prior to entering the study, according to the criteria Sample # 1 below can be tested using rapid tests Two different two or based on different principles and antigenic determinants manufacturers antibodies (only for largest survey participants 18 months);
An EIA or western blot assay, or immunofluorescence assay OR chemiluminescence assay (only for largest survey participants 18 months); A PCR HIV DNA; A quantitative PCR HIV DNA (
laboratory test values ??outside the normal range
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of the treatment by the incidence of events adverse   clinical and laboratory, and the reduction in CV (viral load) and increase in immune response (CD4 increase);
  evaluate the influence of genetic polymorphism of CYP 2B6 enzyme in EFZ clearance between Brazilian children;
How to make women with fibromyalgia become interested in physical exercises daily?
How to motivate women with fibromyalgia to join the exercise continued?
Intervention group: 15 patients will follow a program with one session per week supervised aerobic exercise lasting 30 minutes and stretching exercises lasting 10 minutes during eight weeks; Group control: 15 patients will receive an educational talk about fibromyalgia, with 60 minutes duration, stressing the importance of aerobic exercise, accompanied by the delivery of an explanatory booklet. Both groups will receive a spreadsheet tracking, which record the day performing physical exercise, duration and possible complications. Assessments, for a total of three, before the intervention, after 8 weeks, and follow-up after 3 months, will consist of a series of questionnaires: Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Questionnaire International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), followed by physical examination of tender points through the algometer, visual analogue scale (VAS) and test 6-minute walk.
Women from 18 years diagnosed with fibromyalgia performed by rheumatologists; according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR 1990). The estimated sample size was 30 volunteers. 
Women who have comorbidities which is a contraindication to physical activity; recent change of medication (in the last two weeks); and / or already do moderate-intensity physical activities regularly (more than 30 minutes up to three times per week)
OUTCOME FOUND   Although the adhesion percentage was higher in the guidance group (GO) regarding the supervised group (GS), there was no statistically significant difference in both the revaluation (chi square = 0.048) and at follow-up (chi square = 0.024) comparing the membership fee between GS and GO, with p> 0.05 in both analyzes.
OUTCOME FOUND   There was no statistically significant difference between women who adhered to the exercise program regarding the improvement in physical function, the painful and depressive symptoms.
The importance of information on quality of life of women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Evaluation of the impact of access to information on quality of life of women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, a randomized controlled trial
Group 1 (primer): 49 women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)  will respond to quality of life (QoL) questionnaires and immediately afterwards will receive a primer with information about the syndrome. Group 2 (control): 49 women with PCOS will respond to QoL questionnaires, will not receive any written information material. The release of the primer will be performed randomly, through electronic draw. After an interval of 30 days the patients in both groups will be reassessed and respond to  QoL questionnaires.
The control group will receive the primers at the end of the second stage.
Being in the premenopausal period; between 15 and 50 years old; having the diagnosis of Polycistic Ovaries Syndrome by the Rotterdam criteria (2003); give written, informed consent to participate.
Previous psychiatric disorder; associated comorbidities that may affect the quality of life, such as diabetes, heart failure, collagen diseases, difficult to control hypertension, chronic kidney disease and obesity grade II or more;level below the 4th year of elementary school.

Quality of life assessment through consolidated mental scores of the Short Form-36 (MCS) and the domains of specific questionnaire for Ovary Syndrome Policísticos - PCOSQ (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Questionnaire) and comparison of the measures in the 2 groups: Primer Group and Control Group.
Measures of scores of other domains of the SF-36: functional capacity, physical, emotional, pain, general health, vitality
The Effect of Laser Therapy After Surgery
The Effect of Low Level Laser Therapy in the Modulation of the Inflammatory Process After Surgery
A randomized, controlled, double-blind, clinical trial. 500 patients undergoing treatment at the Dental Specialty Center for the removal of impacted lower third molars will participate in the study.
After a clinical evaluation by the surgeons, patients who meet the erligibility criteria will be divided into five experimental groups based on a randomization method involving raffle numbers. Randomization will be conducted by a researcher not involved in the recruitment and treatment of the participants. Concealed allocation will be performed using a set of random numbers placed in sealed opaque envelopes. The person responsible for the application of laser irradiation will open the envelope containing the procedure to be performed on each patient immediately following third molar surgery. Sealed envelopes awaiting new subjects will be kept in a safe place and given to the operator as the sessions are scheduled. According to the laser therapy that will be applied after surgeries, the 500 patients will be allocated equally into five experimental groups as follows:  intraoral irradiation (laser 660 nm), extraoral irradiation (laser 660 nm), intraoral  irradiation (laser 808 nm), extraoral irradiation (laser 808 nm), and no irradiation (control group). Intraoral irradiation will be performed by positioning the head of the transducer directly in contact with four points (30 sec each point) on the gingival mucosa in the area of the surgical field: 1 – vestibular face (middle of bone socket),  2 - lingual face (cervical third), 3 - lingual face (middle third) and 4 - lingual face (apical third). Extraoral irradiation will be performed by positioning the head of the transducer in contact with the skin on four points (30 sec each point) of the masseter muscle: 1 – lower region (near the mandibular insertion), 2 – lower middle region, 3 – upper middle region, and 4 – upper region (near the insertion of the zygomatic arch). All patients will receive medication for routine surgical procedure (based on analgesic dipyrone every 6 hours for 3 days). The patients will be evaluated two and seven days after surgery by three blinded evaluators for the measurement of swelling, mouth opening (muscle spasm evaluation) and pain (using 2 pain scales). A questionnaire addressing quality of life will be also administered (OHIP-14).
Patients who need to perform removal of impacted third molars and to accept part of the study as informed consent and informed.
Systemic diseases, chronic pain or neurological and psychiatric disorders. Being a smoker. Being using anti-inflammatories, analgesics or bisphosphonates in the past 15 days have provided the framework of pericoronitis in the last month. Being pregnant. Being  breastfeeding.
Compare, using visual analogue scale (VAS), pain symptoms due to removal of impacted lower third molars in patients who received laser irradiation postoperatively and in patients who did not receive laser irradiation. Compare, through three facial measurements pre and post-operative swelling due to surgery  in patients who received laser irradiation postoperatively and in patients who did not receive laser irradiation. Compare,  through the measurement of mouth opening, muscle spasm due to surgery in patients who received laser irradiation postoperatively and in patients who did not receive laser irradiation.
.
Effect of adhesive usage in complete denture wearers
Effect of using an adhesive in conventional complete denture wearers
Clinical trial on the effects of using a denture adhesive. Two arms, double-blind (researcher and patient), randomized controlled trial. The sample consisted of 50 patients of both genders, 32 women and 18 men, between 40 and 80 years. The patients received new conventional dentures, and after the adjustment period after the installation of those were included or excluded from the study according to the criteria of inclusion and exclusion. The study included 29 patients, randomized into two arms with using the computer program BioEstat. Arm 1 (15 patients) = utilization of the adhesive during the first 15 day trial, followed by not using any kind of adhesive over the next 15 days; Arm 2 (14 patients) = not using any type of adhesive for the first 15 day trial, followed by use of adhesive over the next 15 days. To use the adhesive, the patients were instructed according to the manufacturer
Adults; mentally agile and responsive; with resilience and alveolar volume normal; absence of dysfunctions in the stomatognathic system and the absence of debilitating systemic changes
Debilitating neurological or systemic diseases and the need for pre-prosthetic surgery
Patients’ satisfaction with denture adhesive  evaluated by answering the questionnaire to assess subjectively patients satisfaction with and without use of denture adhesive after each period of assessment
Influence of denture adhesive, evaluated by means of the percentage of biofilm formed on the inner surface of maxillary denture in new denture wearers
Psycotherapy and cognitive decrease in elderers
Psycotherapy in elders with Mild Cognitive Impairment
- Experimental Group: 40 subjects diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) will participate in 12 group psychotherapy sessions. To screening CCL the following diagnostic criteria are used: complaints of cognitive difficulties (semi-structured interviews); global cognitive functioning intact; absence of deficits in activities of daily living (Katz Index, Lawton 
Volunteers of both sexes; members of Centro do Idoso; to be 60 or more years old.
Volunteers with Dementia; neurological or degenerative diseases; severe psyquiatric disorders; don
Improved psychological well being, assessed by specif tests (Geriatric Depression Scale,Beck Anxiety Inventory and Development Personal Scale)comparing the period before and post intervention from the test t for paired samples, adopting a five percent significance level.
Decreased use of antidepressants and anxiolytics, comparing the self-report of medication use before and after the intervention.
Evaluation of maternal supplementation with vitamin E in its natural form or synthetic on the levels of alpha-tocopherol in breast milk
Evaluation of maternal supplementation with vitamin E in its natural form (Acetate RRR-alpha-tocopherol) or synthetic (Acetate All-Race-Alpha Tocopherol) on the levels of alpha-tocopherol in breast milk
The present study aimed to assess whether maternal supplementation as well as what kind of alpha-TOH capsule (natural or synthetic), it is more efficient to increase the concentrations of alpha-TOH in colostrum. For the study 109 healthy lactating women were recruited in a public hospital in Brazil and divided into three groups: control without supplementation (n = 36), upplemented with capsule containing natural alpha-tocopherol (n = 40) and supplemented with capsule containing alpha synthetic alpha-tocopherol (n = 33). 
Sampling occurred in both groups. The frequency with which women received supplementation was only once. After first blood and milk collection  was given a single capsule containing 400 IU of RRR-alpha-TOH or 400 IU of all-rac-alpha-TOH orally. Women and the research team were not aware of the contents of the capsule and was given the label of the packaging was removed. The capsules were identified as A and B.
Lactating women; normal delivery; term delivery; aged 18 to 40 years.
Women with any clinical sign of disease; infections; syphilis; HIV; gastrointestinal diseases; liver disease; heart disease; diabetes; hypertension; cancer; twin pregnancie; newborn with fetal malformations; history of abortion; use of supplements containing vitamin E during pregnancy
Outcome found: Women who received supplementation showed higher concentrations alpha-tocopherol in colostrum than the control group, with 57% and 39% increase in women supplemented with natural and synthetic forms of vitamin E, respectively.
Outcome found: Women who received the natural vitamin E supplementation had on average 49.6% higher concentration of alpha-tocopherol in milk than those who received synthetic capsules.
Non-randomized clinical trial to assess the effect of a medication against cytomegalovirus in patients who are not infected originally cytomegalovirus but who have received renal transplantation from donors that are infected by cytomegalovirus.
A phase 2a single arm study to evaluate the effect of TCN -202 (human anti-cytomegalovirus monoclonal antibody) on CMV infection in CMV (cytomegalovirus) seronegative recipients of kidney allografts from CMV seropositive donors
Clinical safety/efficacy, nonrandomized, open-label, single-arm, phase 2a. It will be included 20 patients of both sexes aged between 18 and 65 years. Patients will receive 6 doses of 15 mg/kg of the monoclonal antibody anti-cytomegalovirus TCN-202 (medication) during the first 12 weeks post-transplant to be administered intravenously in the following time intervals: 1st day (days after transplantation) and at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10.
Patients who are males or females aged 18 to 65 years, inclusive;Patients who are single-organ recipients (kidney only) and CMV seronegative and receiving a kidney transplant from a CMV seropositive (cadaver or living) donor;Females must not be pregnant or nursing and must either be of non-childbearing potential or must agree to use 2 acceptable methods of birth control and must agree to continue doing so for four months after the last dose of TCN-202;Females of childbearing potential and males with female partners with childbearing potential must agree to use effective contraception and must agree to continue doing so for four months after TCN-202 dosing;Adequate venous access and able to receive intravenous infusion;Patients must be able to understand the purpose and risks of the study and sign the informed consent form (ICF).
Patients who require anti-lymphocyte preparations for induction therapy (indication in the rejection of transplanted organs) or those who receive a kidney with a cold ischemia time higher than 30 hours;patients presenting any acute medical condition or significant past medical history or any condition that in the opinion of the Principal Investigator (PI) or the Sponsor would complicate or compromise the study, or the well-being of the patient;Patients with known positivity to Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C and HIV (1 and 2);Patients with history of cancer (except for non-melanoma skin cancer) within 2 years prior to transplantation;patients with history of drug or alcohol abuse within 6 months prior to transplantation;patients who have received an investigational product in any clinical trial within 12 months of transplantation;patients who have received prior treatment with a monoclonal antibody;Patients who require concomitant treatment with other investigational drugs.
The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop CMV infection during the first 3 months posttransplant;The incidence and severiry of adverse events.
The viral load of the CMV detected by PCR deemed clinically relevant that results in initiation of antiviral treatment;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop CMV infection or CMV disease during the first 12 months posttransplant;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who require antiviral therapy during the first 12 months posttransplant;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop CMV resistance to ganciclovir during the first 12 months posttransplant;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop biopsy-proven rejection at 6 and 12 months posttransplant;The survival of the patients and of the grafts at 12 months posttransplant;The proportion of patients who develop mutations in the DNA of the CMV;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop antibodies to TCN-202;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who develop CMV-specific immunity;The proportion of patients treated with TCN-202 who have sufficient data are available for the determination of pharmacokinetic parameters.
Effects of Exercise of the Respiratory Muscles with Different Types of Devices in People with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease

Effects of Respiratory Muscle Training with Different Modalities in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) - Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
This is a randomized, blinded, randomized, patients with a clinical diagnosis of COPD in stages I, II and III according to the GOLD. After recruitment, the subjects will be invited to participate in the initial evaluation of Pneumocardiovascular Performance Lab and Respiratory Muscle HUOL / Ebserh to be held in March 2017. The subjects are randomly allocated into three groups: conventional pulmonary rehabilitation; conventional pulmonary rehabilitation associated with inspiratory muscle training with linear load, called RPPB; conventional pulmonary rehabilitation associated with inspiratory muscle training through isocapnic voluntary hyperpneia called PRIVH. Each group will have 20 volunteers, with a total of 60 vomuntários. The evaluation will be carried out by a previously trained evaluator and assess the anthropometry, lung function and respiratory muscle strength, walk away from the incremental the shuttle walk test, lung volumes associated with submaximal endurance test, peripheral muscle strength ( upper and lower limbs), dyspnea and HRQOL. Pulmonary rehabilitation protocol will be performed three times a week for 10 consecutive weeks. All activities will be supervised by a Respiratory Therapist previously trained in a room with temperature controlled between 23ºC and 26ºC. All subjects will be instructed to perform the rehabilitation program for seven days a week - three with supervision and four unsupervised - for at least an hour a day.

Follow up with a specialized pulmonology physician, aged between 40 - 80 years, living in city of the study, not in use of oxigenoteraphy or disease exacerbation in the last three months, not practicing regular physical activity in the last six months will be eligible to participate. 
Musculoskeletal comorbidities that interfere with the march ; which decreased the oxygen saturation ( SpO2) 
Identify the type of more effective inspiratory muscle training and that will elucidate the effects of TMI in exercise tolerance , identify if there is any impact on the strength and endurance of the respiratory muscles when subjected to different training , from the evaluation , before and after the training period , the maximal respiratory pressures and nasal inspiratory pressure sniff ( manometer ) and breath test dynamic muscular endurance (spirometry ), and exercise tolerance by incremental test walk .
Identify the best mode TMI may be included in conventional pulmonary rehabilitation programs, allowing them to optimize the therapeutic management of patients with COPD. It is also expected that these results endorse adjustments to the modalities used to strengthen the respiratory muscles, as we believe that a well- implemented therapeutic program can reduce the rates of morbidity / mortality in these patients and improve their quality of life. 
Evaluation of blood return and varicose veins in the lower limbs of pregnant women users and non-users of elastic stockings
Evaluation of venous reflux and varicose veins in lower limbs of pregnant women: comparison between users and non-users of compression stockings
Two groups of pregnant women will be compared:
Group 1 - Intervention (n = 30 pregnant women): daily use of compression socks, by approximately 8 hours per day, from 10 to 15 weeks until the end of gestation.
pregnant women who are between the 10th to 15th week of gestation; over 18 years old; not suffering from arterial disease, lymphatic or orthopedic. 
patients overweight or obese; patients with edema of the lower limbs caused by other reasons than venous;  with CEAP classification above 3; carrier of recent or old DVT.
Alteration in venous reflux, amplitude and time, after 30 weeks' gestation, evaluated by color Doppler examination, based on the observation of a statistically significant variation between the pre and post intervention measurements
Change in clinical signs of varicose veins, after 30 weeks of gestation; verified according to the clinical classification CEAP, from the variation of 01 score in the pre- and post-intervention classifications.  Change in leg and ankle diameters after 30 weeks of gestation, verified by measuring with tape measure, from 10% of pre and post-intervention variation
Effectiveness and safety evaluation of biomembrane hemicellulose versus curative collagenase in the treatment of chronic venous ulcers
Biomembranse of hemicellulose dressing versus collagenase in the treatment of chronic venous ulcers: randomized clinical trial, open and controlled study 
There will be two randomized groups, with 35 participants in each group:
Group 1: subjects with venous ulcers treated with biomembrane hemicellulose dressing with change once a day associated with compression therapy with elastic band, also with application once per day (morning and removed at the end of the day).
Sign the consent form; ge above 18 years; of both sexes; Venous chronic disease with venous chronic ulcer evidenced by one or more of the following signs: Hyperpigmentation of the distal third of the lower limb; stasis eczema; lipodermatosclerosis; varicose veins; One or more ulcers whose minimum evolution time is 6 weeks; present ulcer whose largest size is linear up to 20cm; Ulcers do not occur throughout the circumference of the member
Do not use venotonics drugs; pentoxifylline and fibrinolytic drugs in the last two weeks before the study
Having other etiologies ulcers (peripheral arterial disease, causes hematologic, neoplastic, infectious, etc.); Ulcer whose largest linear size is more than 20cm; Ulcers occurring throughout the limb circumference;
Infected ulcer, or when combined with erysipelas, cellulitis or lymphangitis;
 There was a reduction of the area as a function of time, with no difference between groups
Preliminary results show that the biomembrane group had higher vascular proliferation that the collagenase group
Impact of a program of global exercises on balance and memory of subjects with Mutiple Sclerosis
Effects of cognitive-motor rehabilitation in patients with Multiple Sclerosis: a randomized controlled trial
Experimental group (n=15): 15 participants with Multiple Sclerosis are going to compose the program of cognitive-motor exercises that will be held twice a week, one hour long. The intervention will be applied during 6 months. The therapy will consist of global stretching exercises, exercises with balls, sticks and elastic ribbons (10 exercises with 3 repetitions each). With the exercises, we aim to stimulate strength, balance, coordination and gait. Concomitant with the motor activity, cognitive exercises will be performed to enhance attention, concentration and memory of the subjects. The exercises will involve numerical sequences, calculations, identifying figures and quote names beginning with certain letters (3 repetitions each). Control group (n=15): 15 subjects with Multiple Sclerosis that are going to be submitted to follow up period, without cognitive-motor exercises.
Thrity volunteers of both gender; diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis; age above 18 years.
Refusal to participate; exacerbation of symptoms of Multiple Sclerosis during treatment; cognitive decline; imposibility to attend the treatment sessions.
Improvement of balance and cognitive functions.  The level of improvement will be verified by means of Mixed Analysis of Variances, with p<0.05 and statistical power of 80%.
The verification shall be accomplished by the following instruments: Timed Get Up and Go (normal and sensitized with cognitive and motor dual task), Montréal Cognitive Assessment, Frontal Assessment Battery and Minimental State Examination.
Effects of different modalities and different intensities of physical rehabilitation on the Elimination of protein in the urine in patients with chronic kidney disease not requiring dialysis hypertensive origin
Action of different modalities and intensities of physical rehabilitation on albuminuria of patients with non-dialysis dependent hypertensive nephrosclerosis
For this study will be a physical rehabilitation program for the treatment of chronic renal failure patients with hypertensive origin with protein disposal (albumin) in the urine, which will be divided into five groups: Group 01 designated control that will perform just muscle stretching, group 02 physical activity aerobic (oxygen dependent) low intensity (40-60% of maximum heart rate), Group 03 medium-intensity aerobic activity (61-80% of maximum heart rate), Group 04 anaerobic activities (not dependent on oxygen ) low-intensity resistance exercise with 40 to 50% of one repetition maximum and Group 05 medium-intensity anaerobic activities with resistance exercises between 51 will 60% of one repetition maximum.All are served by a twelve week period, with a frequency of three weekly visits lasting an hour, 10 people per group.
Minimum age of 18 years; patients with chronic kidney disease in hypertensive origin; with elimination of the protein albumin in the urine with more than 30 milligrams per gram of creatinine, family history of hypertension, hypertension preceding the elimination of prteína; the presence of ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram signals.
Patients who are on dialysis; Albuminuria greater than or equal to 2,000 milligrams per gram of creatinine; History or evidence of angina or myocardial infarction; Treadmill exercise test positive for coronary heart disease; Cardiac arrhythmias; Musculoskeletal restrictions that preclude participation; Hemodynamic instability; Diabetic patients; Exposure to nephrotoxins; Evidence glomerular diseases; Presence of systemic diseases that can affect the kidneys.
1)Avaliar Como repercussões de Diferentes Tipos de Atividades Físicas em Doentes Renais crônicos de Origem hipertensiva, SEJA aeróbicas (Dependentes de Oxigênio) OU anaeróbicas (Não Dependentes de Oxigênio) em relaçao a eliminação de proteína Pela urina em especial a albumina, com Exercícios Realizados em Grupos de Media e baixa intensidade parágrafo Ambas como Modalidades, que serao quantificadas POR Meio do Exame de urina de 24 horas Realizado os antes e apos o Programa de Reabilitação de doze Semanas em Uma Frequência de Três vezes semanais com Duração de Uma Hora.
1) To assess possible improvement in blood pressure over the performed physical activities, which will be assessed by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) and through the arterial stiffness index. 2) assess whether there is improvement in functional capacity, with the completion of physical training in patients, which will be assessed through the six-minute walk test.
Effect of inspiratory muscle training on respiratory muscle
Effect of inspiratory muscle training on adaptation structural and neural of respiratory muscle
Sample of 50 young, healthy, sedentary adults, divided into two groups: control (GCon) of 25 volunteers and experimental (GExp), also with 25 volunteers. All subjects will perform for 18 weeks a domiciliary protocol of inspiratory muscle training (IMT), with POWERbreathe® divided into two phases. In phase 1, nine weeks, the GExp will training with a load of 55% of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP), and the GCon hold the TMI using a load of 10% of MIP. The training is performed in sessions of 30 repetitions, twice a day, six days, consecutive week. In phase 2, after these first nine weeks, participants will be randomized again and form the maintenance group (GMan) and detraining (GDes). The GMan continue training with the same percentage of MIP their initial training, but TMI will be reduced to 2 times per week, and the GDes will conduct training with zero charge, also 2 times a week. This second step of the protocol will also occur for nine weeks, with 30 repetitions sessions twice a day.
Male and female; aged between 18 and 29 years; absence of visible deformities in the spine; absence of respiratory or neurological disease; absence of other significant pathology that could interfere in the recording of the electrical signal; BMI between 19 and 25 kg/m2; not show lesions at sites of electrode placement; FEV1/FVC
Inability to perform the protocol established by the study; present any problems during data collection; be unable to understand and/or perform procedures
Increased electrical activation of the diaphragm after 5 and 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, verified through the median frequency and the RMS (root mean square) obtained in surface electromyography exam from observation of a variation at least 10% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Increase in diaphragmatic mobility after 5 and 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, assessed through the ultrasound exam from the observation of a change of at least 8% in pre and post intervention measurements.  Increased diaphragmatic thickness after 5 and 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, assessed through the ultrasound exam from the observation of a change of at least 20% in the pre and post intervention measurements.  Increased respiratory muscle strength after 5 and 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, evaluated by manovacuometry, from the observation of a change of at least 40% in the pre and post intervention measurements.  Increase in respiratory muscle endurance after 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, observed by maximum voluntary ventilation technique, from the observation of a change of at least 8% in pre and post intervention measurements.  Increased aerobic capacity (maximal oxygen uptake) after 9 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, verified by the cardiopulmonary exercise testing, from the observation of a change of at least 20% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Effectiveness of the bleaching technique delivered in custom-made or prefilled disposable trays
Effectiveness and clinical parameters evaluation of bleaching technique with 10% hydrogen peroxide dispensed in individual or pre-loaded trays
Participants will be instructed to use bleaching agents in trays (these bleaching agents are commercialy avaibale on the market). Instructions will be given to use the agents in trays, to place in position onto the teeth. According to the groups, participants will be instructed to performe bleaching treatment. Experimental group 1: 20 patients, for 30 minutes a day for 14 days, using Pola Day (in individual tray).
Experimental group 2: 20 patients, for 30 minutes a day, for 14 days, using  Opalescence Tres White Supreme (in pre-filled tray). Experimental group 3: 20 patients, for 8 hours during the nigth (while sleeping) using Opalescence PF 10% (in individual tray).
being aged between 18 and 30 years; presence of at least 20 sound teeth; presence of central and lateral incisors or upper and lower canines with at most 1/6 of the buccal surface restored.
teeth with an initial color of B1 assessed using a shade scale (Vitapan Classical, Vita, Germany) or spectrophotometer (VITA Easyshade® Advance, Vita, Germany); people wearing dentures or fixed/removable orthodontic appliances; pregnant or breastfeeding women; smokers; history of dentin sensitivity; presence of active caries in enamel or dentin; periodontal disease or other oral diseases; tetracycline-pigmented teeth; patients who had their teeth bleached before.
It is expected that individual trays lead to a higher technical acceptability by the use of visual analogic scales (from 0 - not acceptable - to 10 - completelly acceptable).
It is expected that all bleaching agents could provide similar gingival irritation for all volunteers, by the use of scores (absent, localized ad generalized).
Early Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation in Critically Ill Trauma Patients
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation in patients with Traumatic Brain Injury under prolonged mechanical ventilation: a Randomized Clinical Trial
Intervention Group (n=20): In addition to usual care, patients randomized to the NMES group received one daily session of electrical stimulation, in the afternoon, for five consecutive days (weekends included). NMES was conducted after ultrasound evaluation and blood sample acquisition. All patients were screened for physiologic stability before each NMES session. The session was deferred if patients had any of the following findings within three hours before the session: received a neuromuscular blocker infusion, documented acidosis (pH by arterial blood gas 
Major trauma patients were assessed for eligibility within the first 24 hours after hospital admission. Adults older than 18 years old with invasive mechanical ventilation were included.
pregnancy; stroke; previous neuromuscular disease; suspicion of brain death; lower limb amputation, fracture or skin lesion that restrained ultrasound evaluation.
Observed: mean change in muscle quality (echogenicity), assessed by muscle ultrasound, of 32% in pre and post intervention; mean change in size (thickness), assessed by muscle ultrasound, based on a minimal variation of 15% in pre and post intervention.
Observed: Smaller decrease on circulating levels of IGF-I at intervention group (18%) compared to control group (45%).
Evaluation of Preoperative Physiotherapy Influence on Postoperative Pulmonary Function of Megaesophagus Surgery
Evaluation of A Preoperative Physiotherapeutic Program Influence on Postoperative Pulmonary Function of Megaesophagus Correction
Thirty patients with megaesophagus, graus III and IV, from Clinicas Hospital of Federal University of Triangulo Mineiro and thirty patients with resectable esophageal cancer from Pio XII Foundation of Barretos Hospital of Cancer in the preoperative of esophagectomy, of both genders, aging between 18 and 75 years old will participate in the study. The patients are going to be randomly allocated in two groups (groups 1 and 2). Randomization will be stratified by gender, therefore there will be two envelopes, each with blocks of four (two per group). Group 1 (control): The volunteers are going to receive usual physical therapy care characterized by being instructed to perform deep breathing exercises associated to upper and lower limbs movements. Group 2 (intervention): The volunteers are going to receive the same treatment as group 1 and they will also perform inspiratory and expiratory muscle training with Threshold IMT and Threshold PEP devices, respectively. The preoperative physiotherapy treatment will be applied at least two weeks before surgery. One limitation of the study is that it is an open trial.
Patients diagnosed with achalasia grades III and IV. Patients with resectable esophageal cancer. Age greater than 18 and less than or equal to 75.
Patients who are operated in a period of less than two weeks after the initial assessment. Patients who do not understand the proposed treatment or who refuse to sign the Instrument of Consent.
We expect that group 2 (intervention), due to the effective preoperative respiratory muscle training, evolve with lower incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications after esophageal surgery, characterized by: better pulmonary function evaluated by spirometry (higher forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1], forced vital capacity [FVC] and FEV1/FVC ratio, higher maximal respiratory pressures and higher maximal voluntary ventilation evaluated with manovacuometry.
If group 2 present a better pulmonary function in the postoperative, it is possible that these patients have a shorter hospital length of stay (in days). 
Effect of Two Kinds of Therapy on Women with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome
Effects of Lumbo-pelvic Stabilization Training on Women with Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome
Randomized clinical trial, two arms, including 30 women with patellofemoral pain syndrome between 18 and 30 years old. The volunteers were randomized into two groups; experimental group (EG,n-15) and control group (CG,n-15). The randomization process was carried out by way of a random number table created in a computer resulting in both groups. The women allocated in the EC group carried out strenghtening exercises for the lumbo-pelvic muscles as well as performed a functional training to correct any dynamic lower limb misalignment. On the other hand, the CG carried out the conventional treatment for patellofemoral pain syndrome focused on quadriceps strenghtening and stretching of the lower limb muscles. Both groups performed the activities 3 times per week for 8 consecutive weeks.

Women agend between 18 and 30 years old, anterior or retropatellar knee pain during at least two of the folling activities: ascending/descending stairs, squating, running, jumping and prolonged sitting, insidious onset of the symptoms being unrelated to a traumatic incident and persistent for at least 8 weeks, presence of pain on palpation of the patellar facets, usual pain in the last week of at least 3cm in the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of 10cm. 
Signs or symptoms of meniscal disorders, cruciate or collateral ligament involvement, tenderness over the patellar tendon, iliotibial band, or pes anserinus tendons, sign of patellar apprehension, Osgood-Schlatter or Sinding-Larsen-Johansson syndromes, hip or lumbar referred pain, history of patellar dislocation, evidence of knee joint effusion, previous surgery on the knee joint.
Worst patellofemoral pain in the last week. Patellofemoral pain will be evaluated using a 10-cm visual analogue scale  with 0 indicating no pain and 10 indicating extremely intense pain. We hypothesized that when compared to the control group, the experimental group would show greater improvement in pain at 2 and 5 month follow-up assessments. 
Functional limitation will be evaluated using the anterior knee pain scale and the lower extremity functional scale. The scores of these scales range from 0 to 100 and 0 to 80, respectively, with 100 and 80 showing no functional limitation. We hypothesized that when compared to the control group, the experimental group would show greater improvement in physical function at 2 and 5 month follow-up assessments.   
Auriculotherapy effectiveness in reducing smoking
Auriculotherapy effectiveness in reducing smoking
Experimental group: 25 smokers will be subjected to treatment with application of auricular points Shenmen, Kidney, sympathetic, 1 Anxiety, Anxiety 2, Hunger, Thirst and Addictions.
Control group: 25 smokers are subjected to treatment with auricular points with application in the elbow and arm, considered irrelevant for smoking cessation. Treatment with auriculotherapy using mustard seed will be performed by a specialist in acupuncture, the practice of locating points of surfboard Chinese, with two sessions per week, totaling 10 sessions, alternating pinna each session.
Possessing 18 years of age or older;
Being a smoker (daily make use of any quantity of cigarettes, including a);
Infection, inflammation or injury to the ear;
Make use of ear piercing (except earrings normal);
Identify smoking reduction with assessing the degree of dependence measured by the Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence and evaluation of carbon monoxide in exhaled air (measured in ppm) thru the device monoxímetro.
Identify the profile of nicotine dependence and to investigate the association between it and the sociodemographic variables of the population investigated.
Chewing in Alzheimer
Chewing function in Alzheimer
Chewing function of 15 elderly patients with Alzheimer
Experimental group: elderly patients with mild Alzheimer
Experimental group: the presence of cognitive-behavioral disease different from Alzheimer
It is expected that the treatment will enhance masticatory performance for both groups.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Assessment of static balance in lower limb amputees
Static stability evaluation in subjects with unilateral transtibial amputation traumatic.
 The study included 10 patients with transtibial amputation and 10 without amputação.All volunteers, both of the amputee as the group of non amputee were evaluated similarly. The volunteers were submitted to measurement of static stability through baropodometry, noninvasive method for maintaining the standing position for 30 seconds, which analyzed the oscillations of the body center of pressure.
Amputees prostheses for more than one year and not amputated;
Ability to walk without assistive devices for walking;
Hypertension, cardiovascular disease, or any condition that alters the quality of gait.
Decreased static stability in individuals with amputation and correlation with increasing age and shorter fitting, evaluated through analysis of the oscillation center of pressure by keeping the body upright posture for 30 seconds.
Increased sway area of the body center of pressure in individuals with transtibial amputation with advancing age and shorter fitting compared to the fitting area oscillation of body center of pressure of individuals without amputation.
Effects of a treatment performed with elastic tubings on heart, capacity of exercise and  muscle strength in pulmonary disease
Effects of a Resistance Training performed with elastic tubings on cardiac autonomic modulation, cardiopulmonary functional capacity and peripheral muscle strength in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)
Experimental group: 15 individuals diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease wi8ll receive treatment through a resistance training with elastic tubings. Control group: 15 individuals diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease will receive treatment by a conventional resistance training. The resistance training will last eight weeks, for 24 sessions, lasting sixty minutes each and in a frequency of three times a week. Before and after the program of training all individuals will receive cardiac evaluation, assessment of exercise capacity and muscular strength assessment.
COPD diagnosis; absence of cardiovascular diseases; absence of neuromuscular or skeletal reported diseases; absence of contraindications or any impediment to completion of the experimental protocol
Individuals who do not produce at least 95% of sinus beats in the time series of intervals between beats will be deleted 
consecutive heart used in the analysis of heart rate variability; individuals as you do not complete the protocol experimental and who present clinical instability during the treatent
Increase of cardiac autonomic modulation afer 24 session of treatment evaluated by changes unless 5% on indices of heart rate variability
Increase of cardiopulmonary functional capacity assessed by gain in 30 meters on the 6-minute walk test and increase in peripheral muscle strength assessed by changes unless 5% ondynamometry 
The use of the R1T1 robot as aid in the preoperative process in the Transplant of the Liver
The use of the R1T1 robot as aid in the preoperative process in the Transplant of the Liver Organ
Experimental group: 14 members of the medical team will evaluate the new procedures related to use of the R1T1 in the process of preoperative liver organ transplant.
Control group: the same 14 members of the medical staff will assess the standard procedures used by then without the use of robot R1T1 in the process of preoperative liver organ transplant.
Healthy volunteers; both genders; age between 18 and 60 years; trained personnel who participate directly in the activities carried out with the robot R1T1.
There are no exclusion criteria.
The level of usefulness of the R1T1 robot in the period 01 year checked through the observational method from the finding of 14 members of the medical staff on the feasibility of remote ds review conditions of the liver to be transplanted in the measurements before and after intervention.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effects of Interferential Therapy on the Mechanisms of Pain in Chronic Low Back Pain Without a Specific Cause
Effects of Carrier Frequency of Interferential Current on Modulation of Pain and Central Hypersensitivity in Patients with Nonspecific Chronic Low Back Pain: Randomized Controlled Trial 
Participants will be randomized into 3 groups: 1 kHz Group (50 participants), 4 kHz Group (50 participants) and Placebo Group (50 participants). All subjects will receive 30 minutes of current stimulation (current off in Placebo) for 4 weeks, three days per week. An electrical stimulator will deliver a medium frequency alternating current and the bipolar technique will be used. The following parameters will be used: carrier frequency in accordance with the allocation group (1 or 4 kHz); AMF = 100 Hz, Sweep F = 50 Hz, 1:1 sweep mode and 30 minutes stimulation.
Patients presenting nonspecific low back pain for at least 3 months and with at least 3 of pain intensity in verbal numerical pain scale reported according to how they felt in the last 7 days, aged between 18 and 80 years, both genders
Patients with serious spinal diseases, such as fractures, tumors and inflammatory diseases such as ankylosing spondylitis, spinal root conditions confirmed by neurological tests (spondylolisthesis and disc herniation with neurological, narrowing spinal canal and others). Severe cardiorespiratory disease. Neurologial diseases. Pregnancy. Infection in the site of the current application. Cancer. Cardiac pacemaker. Skin lesions at the site of the current application. Alterations in sensibility and allergy in the region of electrodes placement.
Intensity of pain before, after all sessions, 20 minutes after turning off the current and after 3 months as measured by the numeric pain scale
Pressure pain threshold (PPT) before, at the end of the treatment protocol and 20 minutes after switching off the current. PPTs will be measured with a pressure algometer. Discomfort during current application in all sessions by visual analog scale, disability before, after treatment and after 3 months by Roland Morris questionnaire, the perception of their overall effect before, after treatment and after three months of the overall perception of the scale, the conditioned modulation of pain using the cold pressor test and temporal summation of pain with stimuli pressure at the start of first and the last application. The functionality by sit/stand test before and at the last minute of current in the first and final session.
Effects of actions to promote healthy eating and physical activity using internet technology on the health of adolescents
Effects of promotional activities of healthy eating habits and physical activity in adolescents, use of E-Health technology, enrolled in schools based public schools in the city of Salvador-BA
Food and nutrition intervention via the Internet from a computer program to promote adequate and healthy food with a duration of 12 months in four public schools of Salvador, with an average of 400 adolescents. The control group will be composed of 400 adolescents over 8 public schools of Salvador
Adolescents 10-17 years; of both sexes; enrolled in the public school system in Salvador-Bahia
Pregnant women and people with physical trauma (fixed at the time of anthropometric measurements) and systemic diseases and birth frames, except for metabolic disease
Adequacy of nutritional status determined by anthropometric measurements (BMI /A) from normal values recommended by the indicator BMI /A (p15-85)
Self-esteem assessed by self-esteem scale after 12 months of intervention  Body image assessed by questionnaire on body image (BSQ) after 12 months of intervention
The electrical stimulation
The influence of medium and low frequency currents on the functional performance of soccer players
Controlled experimental randomized study consisted of 30 college athletes of field soccer, also divided into three groups: medium frequency group (MF- 500) (n=10), low frequency group (PC -500) (n=10) and control group (CG) (n=10). Each group will consist of 10 individuals who have evaluated, as the dependent variable: muscle architecture - muscle thickness, fascicle length, fascicle angle (US) - and neural activation (EMG) of the vastus lateralis. In addition to these, the joint peak torque of the extensor muscles of the knee (dynamometer isokinetic) and level of sensory discomfort will also be evaluated (VAS). The independent variable of the intervention will be neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES ). All groups will have the dependent variables evaluated before and after the intervention period which will consist of 18 sessions (6 weeks). There will be no such intervention in the control group but it will also be assessed after that period. The training with electrostimulation will happen 3 times for week and never will be applied for two consecutive days. Each training session consists of 15 minutes (36 contractions isometric per session). Each contraction will have 6 seconds of duration (with the increase and decrease time of 1s), followed by 18-second recovery, respecting always the subjective supported limit and reported by each subject. Statistical analysis of homogeneity Levene
Male (n=30).
Age between 18-30 years.
Presenting some kind of dysfunction in skeletal muscle that may interfere.
Presenting intolerance in neuromuscular electrical stimulation.
Increase in electromyographic signal values, muscular architecture, evoked and voluntary torque caused by training with different currents of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (alternating and pulsed currents). An increase of at least 27% in quadriceps strength of the volunteers measured in a gold standard method - the isokinetic dynamometer - after 6 weeks (18 SESSIONS) of intervention.
Despite the increase in the dependent variables, both types of current will demonstrate the same efficiency as a result. An increase of 27% or more in quadriceps strength of the sample subjects evaluated in a gold standard method - the isokinetic dynamometer - after 6 weeks (18 SESSIONS) of intervention.
Evaluation of dental sensitivity at-home whitening with different viscosities
Evaluation of the influence of at-home bleaching with different thickeners in dental sensitivity
Two groups of n = 35 to bleaching 10% carbamide peroxide containing different thickeners will be analyzed for the sensitivity of the patient and the color of the tooth.. There is no control group in this study.
Volunteers will receive bleaching 10% carbamide peroxide, for four hours over fourteen dias.  Before made individual trays, subjects will be instructed regarding the application of the gel (one drop) in each compartment of teeth  on both arches.
Patients aged between 18-30; Presenting teeth color in the beginning of treatment of A3 and B4; Presence of all the upper and lower anterior teeth; Dental pigmentation resulting from consumption of food colorants; Ability to understand and respond to pain scales used.
Smoker; Dental trauma in the last 6 months; History of use of any tobacco product derived from the past 30 days;  Prior bleaching treatment use of orthodontic appliances or prostheses; Restoration of anterior teeht; Patients with parafunctional habits; Pregnant and lactating; Patients with generalized tooth sensitivity; Discoloured teeth with tetracycline and fluorosis;Periodontal disease; Presence of dental caries; 
Gingival recession more than 1mm.
Dental bleaching with bleaching 10% carbamide peroxide containing thickener experimental results allows a color (brightness) the same or greater increase in value in relation to the teeth gel does not experimental. This analysis is performed by use of reflectance spectrophotometer.
Volunteers have low or no sensitivity throughout the treatment and assessment times after bleaching.
Efficacy and safety of Eslicarbazepine Acetate (BIA 2-093) as single therapy for patients with newly diagnosed partial-onset seizures - ESL extension study

Efficacy and safety of Eslicarbazepine Acetate (BIA 2-093) as monotherapy for patients with newly diagnosed partial-onset seizures: a double-blind, randomized, active-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter clinical trial - open-label ESL extension

Single group with oral administration of ESL, 800 mg divisible tablets, once daily. The first target dose will be either 800 mg QD, 1200 mg QD or 1600 mg QD, depending on and equal/equivalent to the dose level required during the preceding double-blind study. ESL dose can be increased in case of seizures up to a maximum dose of 1600 mg QD, as applicable. 
Total of 341 patients, 08 of these in Brazil.  
Participation in the preceding double-blind study and still ongoing at the time of unblinding; informed consent signature; cooperation and willingness to complete all aspects of the study.
Exclusion from the double-blind study; clinical evaluation of suicidal risk; occurrence of an adverse event; events of alcohol, drug, or medication abuse; relevant clinical laboratory abnormalities; pregnancy or lactating.
Time to treatment failure for subjects already treated with ESL during the double-blind study, through Kaplan-Meier method, for survival probability estimation. 
Treatment retention time at the last evaluated dose during open-label treatment, through descriptive statistics;  Time to withdrawal for any reason at the last evaluated dose, through descriptive statistics; Changes in quality of life assessed using the QOLIE-31, through descriptive statistics; Changes in overall treatment satisfaction, through descriptive statistics.
Effect of administration  beneficial bacteria on the health in overweight women
Effect of administration of probiotics on inflammatory markers in overweight women
 The study will consist of three time points: baseline (T0), after one month (M1) and after two months (M2).
- Placebo group (GP): composed of 30 overweight women who will receive capsules containing 200mg maltodextrin, to be consumed in the morning, every day, with water, during 2 month.
body mass index between 25 and 39.9 kg/m2; aged between 20 and 64 years; who receive outpatient care in general nutrition and nutrition in endocrinology hospital of the University Federal of Goiás
Do not perform all evaluations; Participate in a program of food restriction; Body mass index less than 25 kg/m2 or 40 kg/m2; Patients with immune diseases or immunosuppressive drugs; Patients with liver or kidney disease; chronic alcoholics; In using nutritional supplements;  Pregnant women; In insulin.
At baseline, the groups did not differ regarding to body composition. PG and SG reduced body weight, %fat, BMI, waist circumference and serum concentrations of urea, creatinine and glycated hemoglobin, furthermore both increased %lean mass. However, only SG reduced fat mass, serum LDL-C, Castelli I and II index, and increased antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities. When compared to PG, SG reduced waist circumference and increased the activity of glutathione peroxidase. There were no changes in markers of oxidative and inflammatory stress. Probiotic mix supplementation associated with dietary intervention reduced abdominal adiposity and cardiovascular risk markers and increased antioxidant enzymes activities  effectively than dietary intervention isolated.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Resistance training in clinical, inflammatory process control in patients with moderate, severe and difficult control asthma.
Resistance training in clinical, inflammatory process control in patients with moderate, severe and difficult control asthma.
The subject will be initially evaluated and randomized into 2 groups (1 Group (intervention)-20 participants and group 2 (control)-20 participants) and subjected to resistance training and educational program. After 12 weeks, all subjects shall be reassessed and the last evaluation will happen at the end of the training program. Educational program: enable the patient to participate actively in its treatment seeking in this way optimize it. The program will consist of two classes, one per week, lasting 2:0. The programmatic content will cover: the) know what is asthma, which slows the disease and how to avoid the trigger factors; b) use appropriate medications for each patient and with the proper technique; c) know how to recognize when the asthma is coming out of control, and how to act in the presence of an exacerbation; d) know the side effects of the medications used and understand how to minimize them; and learn to monitor their illness) using the peak flow meter. The lessons will be given in the form of lectures and group discussion. Program of resistance training: the training program will last 12 weeks beginning the week following the end of the implementation of the educational program. Patients will begin with an initial 70 maximum repetition (1RM: the maximum load which can be moved only once on the full range of motion without compensatory movements) in the first week (3 x 8 reps). Each week the load will be increased by 5 of the 1RM.
In medical treatment-outpatient for at least six months;
Clinical picture stable for three months; Optimized drug therapy.
Heart disease associated with pulmonary disease; 
Musculoskeletal pathology that may interfere with the conduct of reviews or exercises;
Reduction of inflammatory process ápós resistance training, assessed by analysing the levels of cytokines by ELISA. Levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, IL-5 and IFN as well as levels of leukotrienes are analysed using commercial kits of enzyme immunoassay (EIA). All samples will be evaluated in duplicates. Improves lung function, evaluated through the procedure of simple pulmonary function test performed respecting the rules of CONSENSUS I BRAZILIAN SPIROMETRY (1996). The dynamic indices obtained will be: forced vital capacity (FVC); Forced Expiratory volume in one second (Fev1); peak flow (PFE) and forced expiratory flow 25-75; Tiffeneau index (VEF1CVF); and maximum voluntary ventilation (VVM). Increased quality of life, evaluated using the questionnaire of quality of life for asthma that evaluates the domains: physical limitation (activities of daily living and leisure), frequency, and severity of symptoms, adherence to treatment, psychosocial and socioeconomic situation. Should be applied by an interviewer, who is not involved with the study, and that will be trained not to interpret the questionnaire for patients. Decrease in anxiety and depression, measured through the self-esteem that will be evaluated by Rosemberg scale. As regards the other variables will be used the questionnaires of BECK et al. for anxiety and depression SPEILBERGER et al. questionnaires are applied by an interviewer that is not involved with the study-oriented, not provide interpretations for patients. Decrease of clinical symptoms, analysed by a journal designed specifically for this job, but based on a previously described (Robles, 2003). The journals will be filled out daily by patients and include questions about the emergence of crises and symptoms (cough, wheezing, shortness of breath, "" wake up the night ", using" firecrackers "). The days free from any of the symptoms will be totaled and considered monthly. Increased peak Expiratory flow values (PFE), assessed through the daily log of PFE. Concomitant to the registry of maximum voluntary contraction will be recorded electrical activity and the amplitude of the action potential (wave M) of the lateral deltoid, Vastus, Pectoral and dorsi dominant member by surface electromyography (EMGs) at a sampling frequency of 1000 Hz. collects will be used two surface electrodes associated with a conductive gel that will be adhered to the skin over the muscle belly of lower limb muscles (side wide, isquitibiais) and upper limb (kite, tricipes brachii and biceps brachii) being the electrodes positioned between the engine and the distal tendon to eletromiográfico signal capture. After the capture and EMGs are dropped the record first and last 10 seconds, staying 10 seconds for the effective analysis of muscle activation. Obtaining the signal will be amplified and converted to digital format for record and analysis of data, and the outcome variable of this measure the average square root (RQM) which quantifies the amount of muscular activity and the median frequency (FM) which reflects the rate of firing of the traction unit. The signal is recorded and stored on a personal computer for subsequent analysis. To get the peak of strength will be used a load cell.
Increasing peripheral muscle strength after resistance training, assessed by testing of maximum force. Before the performance of the tests of 1 repetition (1RM), patients will search four training sessions for learning exercises. After this period, the load test will be applied to assess the 1RM maximum strength exercises: supine straight (SR), leg press (LP), pulled behind (en), hack (HACK), 45th biceps with dumbbells (RB), leg extension (EP) and triceps doughnut in the pulley (RT). Decreased level of respiratory discomfort against determined physical effort, evaluated by numerical scale of Borg modified, ranging from 0 (lowest effort) to 10 (most effort). Decreased heart rate variability (FC), evaluated by the test of variability of FC held on an air-conditioned laboratory with temperatures between 22 and 24° C and air humidity between 50 and 60, in the same period of the day (between 8:0 and 12:0). For the day before and on the day of the test, each volunteer will receive the following guidelines: avoid stimulating beverages (tea, coffee, alcoholic beverages ...), not to make physical activity, perform light meals and have a proper night's sleep (at least 8:0). Before the start of collections, participants will be questioned and examined – systolic blood pressure measurement (PAS) and diastolic arterial pressure (PAD), heart rate (HR), listens to pulmonary and peripheral oxygen saturation. Initially the volunteers will be kept for approximately 10 min to sleep in the supine position so that the FC reaches the basal values. Instant will be collected later FC during 15 min at rest in the supine position. During the gathering, the volunteers will be geared not to speak, not moving and keep your breath and spontaneous in orthostatic position. Throughout the procedure patients are being monitored by polar frequency.
Effects of mobilization and muscle strengthening of neck in neck pain
Effects of association between Mobilization and Segmental Stabilization Cervical in function, range of motion, and strenght of patients with Chronic Neck Pain
It will be recruited 30 patients with chronic neck pain for treatment in cervical segmental stabilization group guided by a physiotherapist. This treatment consists in carrying out a slight movement 
chronic neck pain and cervical radiculopathy; aged 30 to 50 years; and patients signed a free and clarified
patients with cervical spine surgery; concomitant treatment for neck pain; neuromuscular disorders; neurological diseases; pregnant patients; smokers and patients with cognitive problems
increased cervical range of motion, measured by a digital inclinometer, after treatment with a combination of cervical mobilization and cervical stabilization segmentar in chronic neck pain, from an expected difference (p <.05) in pre- and measurements follow up to 6 months.
improved shoulder and hand function in patients with chronic neck pain, verified by the questionnaire Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand (DASH), after treatment with a combination of cervical mobilization and stabilization segmental cervical in patients with chronic neck pain, from a expected difference (p <.05) in pre measurements and follow up 6 months.
Bioelectrical impendance analysis parameters evaluation as severity markers in patients admitted in intensive care unit.
Bioelectrical impendance analysis parameters evaluation as severity biomarkers in the critically ill patient
The critically ill pediatric patients will undergo daily testing of electrical bioimpedance for 14 days or until the occurrence of the outcome of septic shock or organ
All patients aged 1 month to 6 years-old admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit that do not presented on admission with the outcomes studied (multiple organs dysfunction 
Children weighing less than 3kg on admission in the pediatric intensive care unit; impossibility to perform bioimpedance measurement in the first 24h of hospitalization.
multiple organ dysfunction > or equal 4.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome. Death.
The use of expiratory pause on the ventilator during the lung secretions aspiration procedure as the air cleaning technique
The use of expiratory pause during vacuuming in a closed system such as bronchial hygiene technique
Experimental group: 30 patients of both sexes who are on mechanical ventilation will be aspirated through closed circuit associated with atoning break in the mechanical ventilator.
Control group: 30 patients of both sexes who are on mechanical ventilation will be aspirated through closed circuit without using the atoning break in the mechanical ventilator.
Be between 24 to 72 hours on mechanical ventilation; closed suction system; hemodynamically stable stability with mean arterial pressure and equal to or greater than 60 mmHg with noradrenaline doses less than 1?g / kg / minute.
Pneumothorax; undrained hemothorax; subcutaneous emphysema; tuberculosis; Influenza Influenza A; who refuse to participate.
Increase in the volume of aspirated secretion, measured by weighing on a precision scale of at least 1 gram in patients in the intervention group compared with the control group.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effect of Concurrent Training on Risk Factors and Fatty Liver in Obese Adolescents
Study of the Effects of non Pharmacological Training on Components of the Metabolic Syndrome and Fatty Liver Disease in Children and Adolescents with Overweight and Obesityobese Adolescents
Study comprised of 34 adolescents aged between 12 and 15 years of both genders and classified as obese by body mass index in the pediatric population. Participants perform training for a period of 20 weeks, with assessments of body composition before and after intervention. The training has been the model of concurrent training, where individuals practice in the same training session 30 minutes of aerobic exercise (running and walking) and 30 minutes of resistance exercise (weight training).
Classification of obesity according to the pediatric body mass index (BMI) for age and gender, waist circumference (WC) based on the criteria for age, age between 12 and 15 years on the day of assessment, absence of clinical conditions that made physical activities impossible, a free and informed consent for participation in the program signed by the parents or legal guardians.

Participants aged not compatible with the age proposed by the program, the participant has a disease of metabolic, physical or psychological origin that could prevent the emergence of physical exercise and not be classified as obese by BMI.
Reduce the prevalence of fatty liver and / or degree of illness. 
Improvement body composition.Improvement in lipid profile.
TAF116564 Study to Assess the Incidence of Hemolysis, Safety, and Efficacy of Tafenoquine (SB-252263, WR238605) Versus Primaquine in Subjects With Plasmodium Vivax Malaria
TAF116567 A randomized, double blind, double dummy, comparative, multicenter study to assess the incidence of hemolysis, safety, and efficacy of tafenoquine (sb252263, wr238605) versus primaquine in the treatment of subjects with plasmodium vivax malaria
Tafenoquine plus chloroquine arm: 200 subjects will be followed-up till 180 days, receiving chloroquine from days 1 to 3 and  Tafenoquine as a single dose on day 1 or day 2, the Primaquine matching placebo will be given orally beginning on day 1 or day 2 and continue for 14 days total dosing. 

Primaquine plus Chloroquine arm: 100 subjects will be followed-up till 180 days, receiving chloroquine from days 1 to 3 and Primaquine on day 1 or day 2 and continue for 14 total dosing, the Tafenoquine matching placebo will be given as a single dose on day 1 or day 2. 
A female is eligible to enter and participate in the study if she is non pregnant, nonlactating and if she is of a: non-childbearing potential defined as post-menopausal (12 months of spontaneous amenorrhea or  less than 6 months of spontaneous amenorrhea with serum follicle-stimulating hormone greater than 40 milli-international units per milliliter, or pre-menopausal and has had a hysterectomy or a bilateral oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries) or a bilateral tubal ligation, negative pregnancy test or, b. child-bearing potential, has a negative pregnancy test at screening, and agrees to comply with one of the following during the treatment stage of the study and for a period of 90 days after stopping study medication: use of oral contraceptive, either combined or progestogen alone used in conjunction with double barrier method as defined below. Use of an intrauterine device with a documented failure rate of  less than 1% per year; use of depo provera injection; double barrier method consisting of spermicide with either condom or diaphragm; male partner who is sterile prior to the female subject
Mixed malaria infectio; severe P. vivax malaria as defined by world health organization criteria, history of allergy to chloroquine, mefloquine, tafenoquine, primaquine, or to any other 4- or 8-aminoquinoline; liver alanine aminotransferase (ALT) greater than 2 time the upper limit of normal; severe vomiting , condition that may affect absorption of study medication (e.g., vomiting, severe diarrhea), or clinical signs and symptoms of severe cardiovascular disease; history of porphyria, psoriasis, or epilepsy; history of significant ocular disease or evidence of corneal or retinal abnormalities identified in the clinical ophthalmologic examination, 
• Proportion of all subjects with plasmodium vivax  (P. vivax) experiencing clinically relevant hemolysis (Time Frame: Up to Day 180 ), clinically relevant hemolysis in all subjects is defined as, a decrease in haemoglobin (Hb) of greater or equal than 30% or greater than 3 gram per decilitre (g/dL) from baseline; or, an overall drop in haemoglobin below 6.0 g/dL, proportion of female subjects with p. vivax who are moderately (40-70 percent) G6PD deficient experiencing clinically relevant hemolysis (Time Frame: Up to Day 180); clinically relevant hemolysis in all subjects is defined as, a decrease in haemoglobin (Hb) of greater or equal than 30% or greater than 3 g/dL from baseline; or, an overall drop in haemoglobin below 6.0 g/dL.
Proportion of subjects with relapse-free efficacy six months post-dosing (after day 32 of the study up to day 180 ). Relapse is defined by a positive blood smear with or without p. vivax symptoms. The term "relapse" will be used to describe any recurrence of malaria that occurs after day 32 of the study. Proportion of subjects with relapse-free efficacy four months post-dosing  (after day 32 of the study up to day 120 ), time to relapse  (after day 32 of the study Up to day 180 ), parasite clearance time (up to day 180). Time needed to clear asexual parasite from the blood defined as parasite numbers falling below the limit of detection in the thick blood smear and remaining undetectable 6-12 hours later. Fever clearance time (up to day 180), time from first dose of treatment to the time when body temperature falls to normal and remains normal for at least 48 hours. Gametocyte clearance time (up to day 180): time from first dose until the first slide that was gametocyte negative and remained so at the next slide reading. Subjects with no gametocytes at baseline will be censored, with a time to clearance of zero. Proportion of subjects with recrudescence (up to Day 29). Recrudescence is defined as any p. vivax parasitemia occurring on or before day 29 (i.e., blood stage treatment failure), incidence of genetically homologous and genetically heterologous p. vivax infections ( up to Day 180). Polymerase chain reaction analysis of plasmodium species such as PvMSP-1, PvCSP and PvAMA-1 will be used to distinguish between genetically homologous and genetically heterologous infection on all subjects at screening (day 1; pre-dose), and at all times of potential recrudescence/relapse or re-infection. Healthcare resource use for p. vivax relapses (up to day 180). Healthcare resource use (excluding clinic visits scheduled as part of the study) data will be collected to characterize p. vivax relapse at study enrolment (for the primary p. vivax infection), the day 15 visit, and at study visits from day 22 onwards for subjects with confirmed p. vivax parasitemia. Population pharmacokinetic profile profile for tafenoquine (days 2, 3, 8, 15, 29 and 60), blood samples will be collected on days 2, 3, 8, 15, 29 and 60 of the study for pharmacokinetic analyses, including but not limited to oral clearance (CL/F) and volume of distribution (V/F), proportion of p. falciparum malaria (up to day 180). Safety as assessed by adverse events (up to day 180): safety as assessed by electrocardiogram (ECG) (12 hours after first dose of blinded study medication, day 29, at relapse or premature withdrawal visit, assessed Up to Day 180), 12-lead ECG will be performed in triplicate at screening but single ECGs will be performed subsequently as indicated unless prolonged QTc is seen, adverse events caused by treatment to prevent p. vivax relapses, especially hemolytic anemia (up to day 180), safety as assessed by clinical chemistry parameters (up to day 180), clinical chemistry includes creatine phosphokinase, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, total and indirect bilirubin and liver clinical chemistry. Safety as assessed by clinical hematology parameters (up to day 180), hematology includes hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell/white blood cell/platelet counts, mean cell volume, white blood cell differential and reticulocyte count, safety as assessed by clinical urinalysis (up to day 180), urinalysis includes protein, glucose, ketones, bilirubin, blood, nitrites, urobilinogen and leukocyte esterase by dipstick method. Over-the-counter medications purchased during the study for p. vivax relapses (up to day 180): the data will be collected for over-the-counter medications purchase to assess socio-economic impact of P. vivax relapses. Any travel or other costs incurred in seeking or receiving healthcare during the study for p. vivax relapses (up to day 180). The data will be collected for any travel or other costs incurred in seeking or receiving healthcare during the study for p. vivax relapses, excluding travel for clinic visits scheduled as part of the study. Time lost from normal occupation during the study due to p. vivax relapses (up to day 180). The data will be collected for to assess time lost from normal occupation during the study for p. vivax relapses, excluding time lost to attend clinic visits scheduled as part of study. Correlation between tafenoquine plasma concentration and p. vivax relapses at 4 and 6 month, if data permit (up to day 180), correlation between tafenoquine plasma concentration and change in methemoglobin, if data permit (up to day 180), correlation between tafenoquine plasma concentration and change in hemoglobin, if data permit (up to day 180)  
Immersion cold water after the physical exercise reestablishment
Effects of systematic application of cold-water immersion in post-exercise recovery in high-performance athletes
Volunteers will be divided into three study groups and they will receive interventions for two weeks with a frequency of four times per week:
Placebo Group: 10 high-level athletes, who will undergo a recuperative intervention considered placebo for 15 minutes at a water temperature of 27 ° C ± 1 ° C with the addition of a skin cleaning solution pH balanced placed in front of the volunteer immediately prior to immersion. Experimental Group: 10 high-performance athletes who will undergo a recuperative intervention by cold water immersion for 15 minutes at a temperature of 13°C ± 1°C being that the temperature of the water will be maintained by the ice with measurements performed by means of a digital thermometer every 5 minutes. Control Group: 10 high-level athletes who do not receive any type of intervention, ie without intervention.
10 high performance athletes; male; athletes; aged between 18 and 30 years.
Smokers volunteers; use of medications that affect autonomic activity of the heart as for example beta blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors; alcoholics; Use of chronically inflammatory drugs such as for example betamethasone; Diagnosis of metabolic disorders and/or endocrine known, for example, diabetes mellitus and dislipedemia; and are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Best recovery of pain using EVA, the perception recovery by Likert scale and muscle sensitivity to pressure by the pressure algometer, muscle strength through isokinetic performing a maximal voluntary contraction, agility, anaerobic power, jump and speed through the photocells blood lactate concentration using blood collected from the ear lobe and lower overhead to the autonomic nervous system by heart rate variability captured by a heart rate monitor and heart rate collected through the heart rate monitor and blood pressure through a stethoscope and sphygmomanometer in the group that will suffer the intervention with immersion in cold water from the finding statistically significant difference before and after the completion of technical and recovery period.
Difference in vagal reentry, anticipation of peak lactate and functional abilities between the intervention and control groups, respectively collected by a heart rate monitor, blood collection the earlobe and photocells equipment before and after the technical and recovery period.
Effect of overhead respiratory muscle on performance in the six-minute walk test in patients with systolic heart failure
Effect of respiratory muscle fatigue on performance in the six-minute walk test in outpatients with systolic heart failure
The 22 selective volunteers for this study conducted, first, the evaluation of muscular strength by manometer with use of the analog vacuum manometer with operating limit of -300 to +300 cmH2O. After, there was a six-minute walk test (baseline group - no intervention) in accordance with the standards of the American Thoracic Society (it was performed blood pressure measurement, we used a sphygmomanometer and stethoscope, heart rate and oxygen saturation, we used the finger oximeter visual scale of perceived exertion (1-10 points), and dyspnea (1 to 5 points)). Then, the subjects were divided equally through a randomization between two groups called: The intervention (inspiratory effort group - GEI) and intervention B (expiratory effort group - GHG). The EGE held expiratory muscle overload and GEI held inspiratory muscle overload, through a linear load resistor. Both with 80% load, 3 sets of 10 repetitions with 1 minute interval between each series, holding 5/2 each effort. After the muscle overload, individuals again held the six-minute walk test. The protocol was crossed.
Patients over 40 years, diagnosed with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction confirmed (Boston criteria), and that part of clinical treatment of heart failure program of the University Hospital Pedro Antonio
Patients with heart rate greater than 120 bpm rest, systolic blood pressure greater than 180 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure greater than 100 mmHg; Malnutrition, as evidenced by a body mass index less than 20 kg / m2; Cold and / or flu in the previous 4 weeks and use of psychotropic drugs, muscle relaxants and immunosuppressants; Inability to walk due to musculoskeletal problems; chest pain previous 4 weeks; cognitive changes that prevent the realization of the Protocol; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Difference between the distance covered on the six-minute walk test before and after muscle overload
variation of heart rate, oxygen saturation, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, perceived exertion and dyspnoea.
Cardiovascular Health Care Program – PROCARDIO-UFV 
Use of Different Strategies in Nutritional Intervention in the Cardiovascular Health Care Program – PROCARDIO-UFV 
Nutritional intervention study. Five hundred will receive a personalized diet, including hypocaloric diet, nutritional counseling, diet workshops, discussion groups, and phone interviews. Each subject will be followed for two years, with weekly or monthly visits. Anthropometry, body composition and biochemical evaluations will be performed every trhee months, while dietary assessment will be assessed every six months.
Age higher 20 years old, diagnosed cardiovascular disease or occurence of risk factors: dyslipidemia, hypertension, diabetes or metabolic syndrome, to be a worker or dependents
Do not want to participate of the study; To be not a worker or dependents
Reduction of cardiovascular risk (Framingham score and metabolic syndrome prevalence)
Change in dietary pattern (increase in the consumption of fruits and vegetables and decrease in the intake of saturated fatty acids)
Evaluation of analgesic effect of surgical wound Infiltration of Open Cholecystectomy with Bupivacaine 0.25% with adrenaline in patients of santa casa de misericórdia de Sobral
Evaluation of analgesic effect of surgical wound Infiltration of Open Cholecystectomy with Bupivacaine 0.25% with adrenaline in patients of santa casa de misericórdia de Sobral
All study patients will be submitted to the same anesthesia protocol. Anesthesia and neuromuscular blockade induction will be used fentanyl 3?g / kg; propofol 3mg / kg and atracurium 0.5mg / kg. Anesthetic maintenance by sevoflurane 3-4%. Analgesia: dipyrone 20mg / kg and 100 mg ketoprofen. As an antiemetic, it was used at a dose of 4 mg ondansetron and gastric protection a dose of 40 mg of omeprazole.
Patients were divided into two groups randomly. Experimental group: 22 patients undergoing open cholecystectomy were infiltrated and 20 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with epinephrine in hemitartrate surgical wound once. Control group: 18 patients undergoing open cholecystectomy and were infiltrated 20 ml of 0.9% saline in surgical wound once. The technique consists of infiltration of the skin, subcutaneous tissue and muscle at the start of the suture of the aponeurosis to the closure of the abdominal wall in the completion of the operative procedure of open cholecystectomy.
They should be included in previously healthy patients; ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologist) 1 or 2; between 18 and 70 years; of both sexes; undergoing elective open cholecystectomy surgery.
People will be excluded who do not agree to answer the questionnaire or refuse to validate the consent form; have any allergies to any of the drugs included in the program 
The group infiltrated with bupivacaine in all periods observed had lower pain scores compared to the test group (control: 4.583 ± 0.554, 4.444 ± 0.506, 3.388 ± 0.405 vs Bupivacaine: 3.409 ± 0.371, 2.545 ± 0.313, 2.000 ± 0.329). By means of Fisher method, mean values and standard errors were found in hours 1, 2 and 4, and "p" with values of (0.046; 0.001; 0.019) respectively. The number of patients requested rescue analgesia was greater in the group infiltration with saline (50% vs. 18.18%). The consumption of morphine sulphate in the two groups had average in mg (2.63 ± 3.58 vs 1.15 ± 2.72; P = 0.136) (Mann-Whitney test), showing no significant difference. The incidence of nausea / vomiting infiltrated with bupivacaine group was lower than the control, but no changes were observed on the respiratory distress of the patients.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Analgesic and adjuvant anesthetic effect of tramadol after third molar surgery
Postoperative analgesia and  anesthetic effect of local tramadol chloridrate injection after oral surgery
52 patients will be selected and 104 bilateral unerupted third molar extractions were performed in both sides of the same patient with a washout period of one week between one and other surgery. Each side to be operated, of the same patient,will be allocated in one of the study group randomized by an computer program: Group T (n=52) the surgical side with receive 2mL of 100mg-tramadol inject submucosally in operated region and inside thooth alveolous immediately after surgery and Group P (n=52) the contra-lateral side will receive 2ml of aline solution as the same manner. Each side will be operate within a wash-out period of one week. Oral surgery will be held under local anesthesy and when necessary crown and roots will be cut using surgical burs under sterile saline solution irrigation. Neither the surgeon nor the patient will know which medication is going to be injected in the first or the  second side. Medications and placebo will be prepared by another operator (non-surgeon)to assure double blinding of the research. 
Both gender, above 18 years of age, necessity of removal of inferior impacted third molars, symetric and bilateral 
In use of analgesic or anti-inflammatory drugs before 24 hours treatment, history of seizure, pregnancy, 
lactation, history of psychiatric illness, allergy to the drugs used in this study
Pain reduction after surgery will be measured by an visual analogical scale (VAS). The hypotheses is that the 100mm visual analogical scale will show lower rates after 4, 8, 24, and 72 hours after surgery
Analgesic consumption reduction associated to tramadol use, assessed by patient's diary informations noting the exact moment of anesthetic wore-off
A study that evaluates the influence of an exercise program guided and structured combined with sleep hygiene measures on the metabolic changes, sleep disturbances and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes.
A Randomized study on the effects of sleep hygiene in glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus

The experimental group will receive the study treatment guidelines regarding sleep hygiene measures. These measures are absolutely not to do naps (can negotiate 15 to 30 minutes), avoiding caffeine, nicotine and alcohol, avoid heavy meals late in the day, avoid spicy foods (remember that chocolate has caffeine, sunbathe in the morning and evening, regular bedtime hours (from 22 to 23 hours), the room is for sleeping (not to watch TV, work, etc.). your room should be pleasant, moderately quiet and pleasant temperature. Will be carried aerobic exercise for fifty minutes three times a week for a period of twelve weeks. the control group did not receive such guidance. Twelve weeks after the first assessment, patients will be reassessed with the same measurements. a blood sample will be collected between 7 and 9 hours to determine biochemical and inflammatory mediators (interleukin-1, interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, TNF-alpha, visfatin).

Know diagnosed type 2 diabetes for at least 6 months.
Men and Woman.
Shift workers
Drug abuse
Evaluate sleep disturbances through the validation of questionnaires (Index of Pittsburgh sleep quality, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Questionnaire on Restless Legs, Berlin Questionnaire, the Beck Depression Inventory, quality of life questionnaire SF-36 Questionnaire level of physical activity-IPAC) used and some inflammatory parameters (interleukin-1, interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, TNF-alpha, visfatin). in patients with type 2 diabetes in both groups by ELISA biochemical methods.
Evaluate if anthropometrical measurements  as: Body-Mass Index (BMI): weight divided by height squared Body-fat index (TCI): the circumference of the hips (cm) -18 / height x square root of time Conicity index (CI): Waist circumference (m) / 0.109 x ROOT (body mass / height) Waist / Hip: Waist circumference (cm) / hip circumference (cm).
Clinical and electromyographic follow-up of patients taking riluzole and lithium carbonate - A randomized controlled trial
Clinical diffusion, neurophysiological progression and prognosis of patients with Motor Neuron Disease undergoing Riluzole and Lithium Carbonate - A Randomized Controlled Trial 
Use of oral lithium carbonate, in a an initial dosage of 150 mg/Kg/day to achieve serum concentration of 0.4-0.8 mEq / L in patients with a diagnosis of ALS diagnosed by physical examination and electromyography, age above 18 years. Participants are drawn into two groups, the first of 50 patients receiving riluzole 100 mg/day associated with Lithium Carbonate and the second with 50 patients isolated riluzole 100 mg/day. Quarterly monitoring by physical examination, serum laboratory tests, breathing tests and surface electromyography.100 participants.
Age over 18 years; no upper limit;
Disease diagnosis Motor Neuron possible, probable or definite;
FVC less than 50%
other diseases exclusion
Assessment of Time for Non-Invasive Ventilation use for more than 12 hours / day for 12 months of follow-up in months. Assessment of Time to tracheostomy in 18 months follow-up. Respiratory Insufficiency development at 24 months, with dessaturation of oxyhemoglobin below 90% and PaO2 below 60 mm Hg in months. Survival Rate at 12, 18 and 24 months with Cox regression and Kaplan Meier with percentual in 18 months. 
MUNE (Motor Unit Number Estimation) count every three months for 24 months. ALSFRS-R (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Fuctional Rating Scale -Revised) every three months for 24 months. Muscle strength evaluation every three months for 24 months. Forced Vital Capacity and Oximetry every three months for 24 months.
An exercise program for diabetic elderly based on impairment of feet and its influence on the balance 
An exercise program for diabetic elderly based on sensoriomotor changes of feet and their repercussions in the balance: randomized controlled trial



Intervention Group - 20 elderly  with diabetic mellitus type II will be randomized and conduct exercises for foot and ankle strength muscle and incentive for cutaneous plantar sensitivity for twice a week for 20 weeks. 

Control group - 20 elderly  with diabetic mellitus type II will be randomized  just a guideline for foot care and correct use of shoes, between the first and second week of study. 
Elderly; above 60 years old; Diabetes Mellitus type II;  independent for activities of daily living. 
Elderly with neurological consequences; vascular diseases; great alterations of balance.  
For static equilibrium used to balance the platform, calculates the displacement body area for 30 seconds. They were repeated three times and then the average of the values ??made ??. There was no difference in the size of the scroll area afterwards.
Secondary outcomes are not expected . 
Use of block of beta tricalcium phosphate to enhance the bone disponibility for the implants placement
Use of block of beta tricalcium phosphate to enhance the bone disponibility in edentulous alveolar ridges: A randomized controlled clinical trial
Patients will be randomly divided into two groups: Control group: 20 patients will be submit to the surgical procedure for the autograft placement; Group test: 20 patients will be submit to the surgical procedure for the autograft placement of the b-tricalcium phosphate blocks 
Having aged between 18 and 60; presence of edentulous alveolar ridges of less than 4 mm thick, which characterizes the need to increase bone availability for subsequent implants placement; good systemic health; provide at least 1 year of healing of the dental post-extraction socket.
Smokers and former smokers; diabetes;chronic or aggressive periodontitis ; users of medications wich alters the bone metabolism; cronical users of anti-inflammatories and antibiotics; bruxism; alcoholics; chemical dependents; pregnant or who wish to become pregnant in the next year; history of radiotherapy  in the head and neck regions; patients with diseases affecting bone metabolism.
The difference  volume stability of grafts that will by evaluate by tomographic analysis take into consideration a difference between the groups of 10.90%
Primary and secondary stability bty yhe resonance frequency analysis, evaluation of the suces and survival rates by the clinical analysis, and the evaluation of peri-implant bone level by the radiographic analysis 
Muscle Pain on the face,stress hormone and heart beat in patients with joint dysfunction of the mouth treated with laser
Evaluation myofascial chronic pain in pacients with Temporomandibular disorders and its relationship with serum cortisol and heart rate variability after  intervention physiotherapic by low level laser therapy
Each volunteer followed the sequence:
Clinical evaluation of volunteer with a clinical diagnosis of Temporomandibular Disorders;
Female gender, non-smokers, normotensive, age group between 18 and 40 years, with diagnosis of temporomandibular disorder, presenting orofacial chronic pain (Gratt, Anbar 2005), which suggest that chronic pain is the pain that persists for more than four months, body mass index (BMI) normal and overweight (normality value of 18.5 to 27.5 Kg/m2) sent to physiotherapeutic treatment.

Volunteers with medical and/or dental emergencies, metabolic diseases (such as diabetes or hyperthyroidism), neurological disorders (e.g. , disquinesia and/or neuralgia of the trigeminus nerve etc. ), vascular disease (for example, hypertension), cancer, past history of psychiatric disorders, drug abuse, pregnant or breastfeeding women, history of recent accidents with powered vehicle, volunteers currently treated with medications for neurological disorders or psychological and making use of analgesics or nsaids, were also excluded.

The results :  The analgesic therapeutic with Laser increased the blood cortisol levels measured in the blood and within normal parameters; Reduced muscle tension of the face and head muscles verified by increase of the range of motion of the mandibular movements measured in millimeters with a pachymeter  and lower levels of pain on palpation by physical examination; LLLT applied for pain of the volunteers Reduced the increase in sympathetic nerve activity on the heart, spectrum of very low frequency (VLF) and spectra of low frequency (LF)measured by analysis of the eletrocardiogram. 
Use of penile clamp and quality of life in urinary incontinence after prostate surgery
Use of the penile clamp and quality of life in Urinary Incontinence After Prostatectomy: clinical trial Phase I / II
Two penile clamps will be used: a new model type hinge, which will be the experimental treatment (Disur@) and one with Cunningham design, which will be the active control. The total number of participants will be 30 patients. As it is a crossover design, each participant will be their own control, i.e., the 30 participants will receive the two treatment (the experimental and the ative control) alternately, each penile clamp for 15 days, for at lest eight hours per day.The using order is randomly selected to reduce the effect of bias (carryover) and there will be an interval of seven days between a clamp and another (wash out) to eliminate any possible residual effects (though this is not expected with this type of treatment), and allow better blood circulation in the penis. The participant will be asked to increase the operating time of progressive and slowly, according his tolerance, clamp up to eight consecutive hours of use. Should make urination scheduled every two hours or shorter interval, according to the need (bladder sensation), removing the clamp for a few minutes to rest and evaluate the skin and during the night. The participant will be trained by the researcher to apply the clamp securely using a dildo.
have stress urinary incontinence; have completed prostatectomy or transurethral resection for at least one year; have satisfactory score on the Mini Mental State Examination; have normal sensation in the perineum and the penis by physical examination; perineal intact skin; good manual dexterity demonstrated with installing and removing the clamp; to read and write or come with caregiver or family member, in the case of illiterate patients.
be performing radiotherapy or chemotherapy for prostate tumor; have symptoms of urge urinary incontinence or urge incontinence; prior urodynamic study demonstrating detrusor overactivity or low compliance; present neurological disorders or other conditions that alter the perineal sensitivity, manual dexterity or change in cognitive function; provide blood flow velocity in lower systolic peak 10ml per seconds in the flaccid penis; be in use of penile prosthesis; be in the presence of urinary tract infection, but after resolution of the urinary tract infection, may be part of the survey, provided it meets the other eligibility criteria.
Safety: Safety will be assessed by Doppler ultrasound of the penis, daily record for evaluation of adverse events and skin assessment; demonstrated from the reduced blood flow in the penile arteries below 10 ml / sec; presence of adverse events and skin changes associated with the use of penile clamp.
Satisfaction: The satisfaction will be assessed through a specific questionnaire, covering items related to the comfort and effectiveness of penile clamps, developed and validated for this purpose.
Evaluation of partial  caries removal in primary and permanent molars over time
Partial caries removal in primary and permanent molars:
Longitudinal clinical trial
The 80 selected teeth will be randomly divided into two groups. Forty will be part of the experimental group (Partial Caries Removal) and the other 40 will be the control group (Total Caries Removal). The teeth will be anesthetized and isolated with a rubber dam, and then, cavity preparation will be done according to the type of treatment proposed for each group. In the control group, access to the lesion, when necessary, will be done with high-speed bur (No. 329) and caries removal will be performed with spherical low-speed round burs.To reduce examiner subjectivity, a
caries detector dye (0.5% fuchsin, Videocariesul, Iodon
Eighty Children aged 8 to 15 years; both genders; carrying at least one deep active occlusal caries lesion (inner half dentin diagnosed radiographically) in previously unrestored primary and permanent molar and complying the score 3 index Nyvad without pulpal involvement (cavity in enamel and dentin; visible to the naked eye; cavity surface softened or leathery to soft probe).
Children who have debilitating systemic diseases that might interfere with some of caries risk factors; children with salivary changes (xerostomy) and / or are making use of medicines in the last 3 months like the use of antibiotics. Teeth with clinical signs or symptoms and radiographic findings that may assume irreversible pulp inflammation or pulp necrosis
Evaluation of  pulp blood oxygen saturation percentage (%SaO2): Blood oxygen saturation percentage will be measured with pulse oximetry The cutoff values for pulp health by pulse oximetry:  greater than 75%.
Pulp necrosis:exposed pulp without bleeding or presence of fistula
Influence of the depression treatment with escitalopram in mild to moderate arterial hypertension
Influence of the depression treatment with escitalopram in mild to moderate arterial hypertension
Active group: 15 persons with high pressure and depression received escitalopram until 20 mg/day for 8 weeks.
Control group: 15 persons with high pressure and depression received placebo until 2 capsules/day for 8 weeks.
18 to 65 years; arterial hypertension stage 1 or 2; major depressive disorder

Liver insuficiency; cardiac insuficiency, renal insuficiency; secundary arterial hypertension; use of psycotropics; psychotic disorder; alcohol or substances disorder; suicide risk
observed outcome: there were no statistical difference of the dyastolic arterial pressure in the following parameters; beginning 79,1mmHg ±9,66 x 82,1mmHg ±9,79, p=0,41; second week 90,6mmHg ± 12,88 x 85,6mmHg  ±9,15 p=0,22; fourth week 86,8mmHg ± 13,02 x 80,4mmHg ±13,71 p=0,2; sixth week 81,3mmHg ± 11,69 x 82,0mmHg ±13,24 p=0,88; eight week 80,3mmHg ± 12,80 x 80,6mmHg ± 13,37 p=0,96; difference between beginning and second week 16,3mmHg ±14,54 x 7,1mmHg ±  11,85 p=0,065; difference between beginning and eight week 10,2mmHg ± 6,27 x 5,0mmHg ± 9,41, p=0,089. 
Observed secundary outcome: cardiac frequency time 4 lower on escitalopram group than placebo:escitalopram 66,88 ± 9,62 bpm x placebo 74,19 ± 9,55 bpm, p= 0,04.
Does desflurane anesthesia associated or not with nitrous oxide induce genotoxicity and oxidative stress in patients?
Does desflurane anesthesia associated or not with nitrous oxide induce genotoxicity and oxidative stress in patients?
The study will be conducted in 20 patients undergoing minimally invasive surgery with anesthetic desflurane and 20 with desflurane anesthetic associated with nitrous oxide.
Patients will be randomized into one of two groups.
Healthy individuals who do not present other disease unless the operative condition, undergoing elective ENT and ophthalmic surgery, lasting at least 90 minutes
Smoking, using illicit drugs and alcohol, users of daily vitamin supplements and / or antipyretics, analgesics, antibiotics, anti-inflammatory, among others, the occupationally exposed to paints, fuel, pesticides and hospital environments, those who received radiation ionizing or MRI done in less than 30 days, those who have already undergone chemotherapy or radiotherapy, patients with diseases such as asthma, hypertension, diabetes, cancer, infectious or inflammatory processes, and those who are not referred for surgery of ENT and ophthalmology clinic.
It is expected to find increased DNA damage in patients of both groups, particularly in the group associated with anesthesia with nitrous oxide, but with greater damage to collect M1 (90 minutes after the initiation of surgery) using the comet assay in lymphocytes, image analyzed by fluorescence microscopy with the aid of a software capable of detecting the intensity of the tail, and the tail greater, the greater the damage. Increased oxidative stress by the test carbonyls and malondialdehyde protein. And the reduction of TAP test (total antioxidant capacity) performed in serum or plasma. There may be some imbalance of antioxidants and vitamins, so it is necessary to evaluate these antioxidants and vitamins to better elucidate the effect of desflurane associated or not with nitrous oxide in the patient's body. The results of gene expression and polymorphism will also give a direction of the effects of  these anesthetics. The results obtained are comparable between groups and times to check significant difference.
Are not expected
Laboratory and clinical evaluation of resin composite placed in one increment in posterior teeth restorations
Laboratory and clinical research of a technical insertion of a composite resin in posterior teeth
Will be selected 72 participants who possess four or two cavities in the back teeth, due to carious lesion or unsatisfactory restorations / fractured requiring replacement, with a minimum depth of 3 mm. The cavities 236 are randomly divided into four experimental groups (n = 59), according to the adhesive system and technique used for inserting the composite. Each patient will receive four or two restorations. 
After local anesthesia will be performed with prophylactic pumice and rubber cup with water, followed by rinsing and drying, selection of color composite and absolute isolation with rubber dam and clamp. Then there will be the preparation of the cavity (restricted to caries removal or faulty restoration) with stainless steel bits (# 329, 330 and / or 245) or spherical diamond burs (# 1012, 1014). The dimensions of the wells will be registered in the records and photographed the extent of the cavity in mm with the aid of a millimeter probe. Then opens the randomization envelope so that the operator knows what the applied adhesive system and the technique for insertion of composite resin.
Participants must be healthy; be at least sixteen posterior teeth in occlusion; minimum age of 18 years; have at least two caries or defective restorations in need of replacement in posterior teeth (cavities adjacent to the restoration, fractured restorative material or patient choice of aesthetics); the teeth to be restored should be in occlusion with the antagonist and respond positively to pulp vitality test performed with the application of cold (Roeko Endo-Frost, Coltène / Whaledent, Langenau, Germany, the cavities to be restored must have a minimum depth 3 mm (previously verified by bitewing radiography exam and millimeter probe)
We excluded participants with poor oral hygien; with periodontal disease; endodontic treatment; with extensive prostheses (fixed or removable) or orthodontic treatment; with known allergy to resin-based materials or any other material used in this study; patients with chronic use of anti-inflammatories, analgesics and psychotropic drugs; pregnant or breastfeeding women. 

Expected outcome: The number of patients reporting pain spontaneous  for 7 days after the procedure, through self-report. This number will be transformed into percentage of patients with pain and is called absolute risk of tooth sensitivity.
Expected outcome: The secondary clinical endpoints were restoration fracture/loss of retention, marginal caries, marginal staining, marginal adaptation, surface texture and color match. We ranked these variables into the following scores: clinically very good; clinically good; clinically sufficient/satisfactory; clinically unsatisfactory but can be repaired and clinically poor which need replacement. For marginal adaptation and marginal staining, we employed the semi-quantitative SQUACE criterion, proposed by Hickel and others. The results of these evaluation criteria are obtained over time.  
Control of hormone concentrations produced by the stomach and intestine by the use of a supplement containing yerba mate, guarana and damiana in women with overweight
Modulation of gastrointestinal hormones by supplementation herbal extract containing yerba mate, guaraná and damiana in overweight women
Experimental group: 20 subjects supplemented with herbal extract containing Yerba Mate (112mg), Guarana (95mg), Damiana (36mg)before breakfast and lunch. Placebo group: 20 subjects supplemented with capsules containing lactose (100mg). The supplementation will be administered during one day and after seven days, washout period.
BMI 25 and 39,9 kg/m²;20 Sedentary women and healthy;Aged 20 to 50 years
Unavailability of one day/ week for the study day;participants with autoimmune liver kidney or hypothyroidism diseases; gastrointestinal symptoms requiring treatment; bariatric surgery;participants of a food restriction program or that practiced diet in the last 12 months to lose or control weight;without use current adherence to a specific food avoidance diet;taking medication or nutritional supplements known to affect appetite or weight;taking medication immunosuppressive or insulin; being pregnant or planning to become pregnant or breastfeeding; menopause;chronic alcoholics;history of anaphylaxis to food; food allergies, including caffeine or other compound present in the supplement and any of the study foods;intolerance or allergy to lactose 
Significant increase in the area under the curve for GLP-1 concentration, based on the statement of the difference between groups of 625% only after breakfast.
Reduction in glucose concentrations after breakfast and lunch evaluated through digital glucometer from the observation that a difference of at least 5% between groups. Significant reductions in glucose concentrations between 90 and 210 minutes after breakfast, based on the statement of the 5% difference between the groups. Reducing the feeling of hunger after breakfast and lunch assessed by visual analog scale, based on the statement of difference of at least 10% between groups.
Effect of different types of exercise on postural balance in elderly women
Effects of different exercise programs on physical activity variables and physical  functional and psychological fitness of elderly women
Seventy-four physically independent elderly women, mean age 69 ± 4 years, randomly assigned to three intervention groups: 1) mini trampoline (n= 23), 2) aquatic gymnastic (n= 28), e 3) general floor gymnastics (GG, n= 23). Each group performed physical training including cardiorespiratory, muscular strength and endurance, flexibility and sensory-motor. The exercise program was of two weekly sessions (2x week), on alternate days, with approximately 60 minutes each session, totaling 24.
Physically independent; participate voluntarily in the study.
Diagnostics neurological pathologies, skeletal muscle or any mental disorder that interferes interventions and tests; surgery in the locomotor system;
Improves postural balance through different types of physical exercises through the parameters of the force platform from an analysis of the variation of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Improves exercise capacity by means of the six-minute walk test from an analysis of the variation of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Prevention of pancreatic inflammation after endoscopy of the pancreas and bile duct with anti-inflammatory
Acute pancreatitis prevention after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with anti-inflammatory 

Experimental group: 137 patients referred to undergo endoscopy of the pancreas and bile duct (i.e., endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) will receive intravenous infusion containing 100mL of saline and 2mL (100mg) of the anti-inflammatory ketoprofen for 20 minutes immediately prior to the procedure.
Control group: 137 patients referred to undergo endoscopy of the pancreas and bile duct (i.e., endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) will receive only 100 ml of saline for 20 minutes immediately prior to the procedure.
Eligible subjects were all adults who were scheduled to undergo ERCP at our institution.
Exclusion criteria were patients with known contraindication to ketoprofen use, active pancreatitis at the time of ERCP, previous ERCP and refusal to enter in the study.
We registered 10 cases of acute pancreatitis after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), 5 cases in the experimental group and 5 in the control group (p equal to 1). It was also observed 38 cases of abdominal pain without acute pancreatitis,  23 cases in the control group and 15 cases in the experimental group (p equal to 0.33).
There were no adverse effects related to the use of ketoprofen. Four cases of infection were observed: 1 case in the experimental group and 3 cases in the control group (p equal to 0.62). Perforation occurred in 1 case in the control group only (p equal to 1). Bleeding was observed in 8 cases, 4 cases in each group (p equal to 1).
Auriculotherapy to reduce pain, anxiety and improving the quality of life
Effectiveness of auriculotherapy to reduce pain and anxiety and improving the quality of life of nursing professionals: a randomized clinical trial
31 patients will be the control group (no treatment), 35 patients will be submitted to the auricular group with seeds (10 sessions, twice a week), 34 patients will be submitted to the auricular group with semi-permanent needles (10 sessions, twice a week) and 33 patients will be submitted to the placebo group with adhesive tape (10 sessions, twice a week)
The subjects of the nursing staff (auxiliaries, technicians and nurses) that present a score above 33 points according to the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (middle and high level of anxiety) and those who have availability of time for submission to the sessions.
Pregnant women; subjects who go on vacation or sick leave during the research period; those who begin to use allopathic medicines for anxiety and antidepressants during the period of research; those who have metal and adesive tape allergy and who initiate other complementary therapies (acupuncture, massage, herbal medicine, Reiki, Flower therapy etc.) for anxiety control during the period.
Reduction of anxiety levels after 5 weeks of treatment. It will be used two instruments to assess anxiety levels (Trait-State Anxiety Inventory and Hamilton Inventory). For finding the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% will be considered at each scale before and after treatment.
Quality of Life Improvement of physical and mental aspects after 5 weeks of treatment. It will be used the quality of life instrument (SF12v2).For finding the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% will be considered at each scale before and after treatment.
Translation of the S.W.I.M. scale
Translation, cultural adaptation and reliability of the s.w.i.m. scale
Phase 1: two translations from English to Portuguese. Phase 2: synthesis of translations in Portuguese. Phase 3: back-translation from Portuguese to English. Step 4: Meeting with translators and experts to clarify possible errors in Portuguese translation. Phase 5: analysis of comprehension of the scale by 20 professionals, 10 physiotherapists specializing in aquatic therapy and 10 physical education. Step 6: one scale application in healthy children 20 to analyze the understanding of the scale. Step 7: intra reliability, two differents appraiser,  and inter-examiner, two evaluation in two differents days, in 30 healthy children by analysis on film.
Professionals with degree in physical therapy specializing in aquatic therapy; professionals with a degree in physical education with experience in the swimming adapted area; both genders; aged 21 to 60 years. Healthy children; both genders; aged 3 to 11 years; children who underwent even months of swimming lesson. 
Professionals who not have experience and formation in physiotherapy and physical education. Children under 3 years old and over 11 years; children with motor deficit or learning change; children over 6 months of swimming lessons; children with changes in health status; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Translation and cultural adaptation of the scale SWIM for the Brazilian Portuguese equivalent to original version attested to translation guides. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Comparison of the effectiveness of the use of pads in adult patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
Comparison of the effectiveness of the use of pads in adult patients with diagnoses of hyperthermia admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
Intervention Group I - Apply warm compress associated with administration of antipyretic. The bandage is soaked in water temperature between 29 and 30 ° C,and remain in the patient for 20 minutes.

Intervention Group II - consisting of patients who apply cold compress associated with administration of antipyretic. The bandage is soaked in ice water, and remain in the patient for 20 minutes.
For inclusion of patients in this study will be established the following criteria: 
be over 18 years;
Exclusion criteria are: 
patient or guardian does not agree to sign the Instrument of Consent;
Verify the effectiveness of the use of compress associated with antipyretic for the treatment of adult patients admitted to intensive care unit with a fever. The compresses are applied to the axillary and inguinal regions. The patient's temperature is measured every 10 minutes for a period of 4 hours, this period will also be observed the time that the patient's body temperature took to reach the smaller value 38.3C.
Verify the effectiveness of using a warm compress associated with antipyretic for the treatment of adult patients admitted to intensive care unit with a fever. The measurements and parameters used to assess this outcome is the same as described for the primary outcome.
Comparison of  lymphatic drainage and exercises for the arms on changes in lymphatic circulation after surgery for breast cancer

Comparison of Kinesiotherapy and manual lymphatic drainage in the lymphatic compensation postoperative breast cancer
105 women were included in the study, with 52 in the MLD group and 53 in the group practicing active exercise for the arms.
Guidelines - On the 1st day after surgery, all women received the information material containing care guidelines to member and exercises to be performed daily at home, and were told to keep free activity with the affected limb in their daily activities. Moreover, they attended the lectures of the multidisciplinary team (psychology, nursing, social work and nutrition), making up the rehabilitation program for patients operated for breast cancer.
First surgery for invasive carcinoma of ipsilateral breast; Conducting radical mastectomy.
Immediate breast reconstruction;  Bilateral surgery; Difference in circumference upper limb prior to surgery more than two centimeters; Motor impairment in the upper limb ipsilateral prior to surgery;  Infection prior ipsilateral upper limb prior to surgery; Realization of sentinel lymph node biopsy;  Radiotherapy prior to surgery;
 Inability to understand the exercises.
The speed and intensity of the radiopharmaceutical used in the examination lymphoscintigraphy behaved similarly in groups, both before and after surgery 60 days.
The presence of collateral circulation at the end of 60 days was similar in both groups. The presence of dermal reflux at the end of 60 days was higher in the group of women who performed manual lymphatic drainage. The uptake of the radiopharmaceutical in the liver at the end of 60 days was similar in both groups. The shoulder movement deficit on the same side of surgery averaged 10º for both groups, suggesting that assets and / or MLD exercises can be employed according to the complaints or symptoms of each woman.
Effects of physical activity  on cognitive functions (attention, memory, processing speed and  executive function), bain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and cortisol levels in older women.
Effects of physical activity  on cognitive function and BDNF and cortisol levels in older women.
Intervention: Physical activity (physical exercise) protocol.

Intervention group (n=20):  Subjects will participate in a three-month physical activity intervention. Physical activity will be done in 60 min sessions three times a week.  Upper and lower limb strengthening exercises will be done in the first 30 min. Each exercise will be done in three sets of ten repetitions with a 10-second isometric hold. After completion of the strengthening exercises, participants will be instructed to walk a specified distance in the residential courtyard. The walking distance will be increased every week until reaching a 30 min walk. All sessions started and ended with warm-up and cool-down stretching exercises. Heart and breathing rate, as well as arterial pressure and oxygen saturation (O2 sat), will be monitored during and at the end of the physical activity. All exercises will be done in the 75-85% range of the maximum heart rate value.
Ages between 60 and 90 years; not being physically active in the last 6 months; at least 4 years of formal education; present a medical certificate permiting the participation in the physical activity protocol. 
Previous  or  current  history of neurological diseases; dementia; major unstable medical conditions; pathological conditions that modify cortisol and BDNF levels; visual and hearing dysfunctions; use of medications that interfere with cognitive functions, BDNF levels or HPA axis; previous or current drug abuse; lower-limb amputation or bone fractures in the past 6 months.
Observed Outcome   Contextual memory improvement, evaluated by the performance (number of correct responses) on the contextual memory task, of more than 5%  from the pre to post intervention condition.
Observed Outcome  Increase in serum BDNF levels, evaluated by ELISA, greater than 5%  from the pre to post intervention condition.
Administration of drugs intramuscular:  in the buttocks region and the side region of the hip
Administration of drugs intramuscular:  dorsogluteal  region and  the ventrogluteal region
Experimental study of the type randomized clinical trial paired. It assesses pain and local reactions at the administration of an injection ampoule 1.200.00 IU Penicillin G Benzathine intramuscularly in Dorsoglútea regions (DRG) and ventrogluteal (RVG), respectively. people will be selected who need treatment for syphilis with penicillin G Benzathine. The people randomized to group 1 were subjected to medication administration cited first in dorsoglútea region (region commonly used control) and later in the RVG (test region). In group 2 the administration will be held first in the RVG (test region) and after the RDG (control region). Both RDG as RVG will be delimited using bone structures of the person subjected to the treatment in question. In both locations will be used the technique in Z and will be evaluated pain and local reactions (heat, redness and nodulation) after administration of the injection, and 24 and 72 hours, always compared these variables between the two regions. The pain will be analyzed through analog pain scale of 0 to 10, where 0 is no pain and 10 is unbearable pain. The heat will be assessed through an infrared thermometer, checking the room temperature in degrees Celsius. flushing and nodulation is checked in cm, using a ruler. Each group will have 20 people
Active syphilis diagnosis; prescription of Penicillin G Benzatina, intramuscular, for treatment of syphilis; without alterations at the site of injections.
Allergic to Penicillin G Benzatina;
bedridden; paraplegics; decreased level of consciousness; fear of injection; painful sensation absent or decreased.
To evaluate the presence and severity of local reactions of heat, redness and nodulation between VG and DG regions using statistical calculations ( absolute frequency , relative standard deviation , mean and mode) as well as the necessary tests ( Pearson's r and T Student
Assess whether there is a preference for one of the regions used satravés statistical calculations ( absolute frequency , relative standard deviation , mean and mode) as well as the necessary tests ( Pearson's r and T Student
"
"
Experimental group (Muscle strengthening program): 20 participants
The exercises performed will follow the recommendations outlined by the American College of Sports Medicine 
Older adults with 60 years or more; community-dwelling residents; able to walk with and without ai; mild cognitive impairment.
Illiteracy; visual and/or auditory deficit; descompensated clinical conditions.
Improvement in the cognitive state verified by the augment in the mean value obtained in the tests: Mini Mental State examination, Verbal Fluency, Stroop Test and Trail Making Test A and B, administered before and after the intervention period.  Improvement in the affective state verified by the reduction in the mean value obtained in the  Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS-15), administered before and after the intervention period.
Increased functionality verified through tests sit and stand and Timed up & go tests, considering significant reduction in the average of the values obtained in the measurements before and after intervention.
Primer orientation in the treatment of migraine.
Effect of additional guidance booklet to conventional therapy in reducing the frequency and intensity of migraine: a randomized controlled clinical study
Intervention group G1: 100 individuals of both sexes receive the Guidance Manual for a physical therapist who will conduct orientation content of the manual, containing the  Pain diary.
Observation group G2: 100 individuals of both sexes, received only the pain diary. Both groups received short calls(average of 5 minutes) to collect data from the daily pain within 30, 60 and 90 days after randomization.
 200 subjects of both sexes, literate, aged between 18 and 65 years, with a diagnosis of migraine with or without aura, conducted by neurologists according to the criteria of the International Classification of Headache Disorders (2004) of the International Headache Society (IHS). Volunteers should have reported at least 2 attacks per month for at least one year, whether or not prophylactic drug treatment, regardless of the drug prescribed by the doctor and the existence or not of analgesic abuse
 patients diagnosed with significant psychological disorders such as depressive disorders, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, cognitive impairment, illiteracy or difficulty to understand or communicate in Portuguese, systemic diseases and chronic pain such as fibromyalgia and rheumatic diseases.
30% reduction in the frequency of migraine attacks and 20% of the intensity of pain, measured by analysis of Pain Diary.
"Reduction of migraine duration to 3 daily hours measured through Pain Diary analysis"
Effect of exercise and dietary control on muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, blood variables and body composition in postmenopausal women
Effects of physical training and dietary control on muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, blood biochemical variables and body composition in postmenopausal women
Training Group: 20 postmenopausal women were subjected to concurrent training (50 minutes of strength training followed by 30 minutes of walking / running) three times a week for 16 weeks. 
Group Training + Placebo: Nine postmenopausal women were subjected to concurrent training (50 minutes of strength training followed by 30 minutes of walking / jogging) three times a week, and received capsules containing 1.5 grams of potato starch during 16 weeks. 
Women; postmenopausal; age between 50 and 79 years at the date of valuation; no physical limitations or any health problems that prevent the implementation of evaluations; possess a medical certificate to perform the cardiorespiratory fitness test, participate in the concurrent training and eating 1.5 ounces per day of taurine;  perform all evaluations; sign the consent form and formal clarification for study participation.
Hormone replacement therapy; hypertension;
hysterectomy; accumulate three consecutive absences or four non-consecutive absences during the month
Reduction in the percentage of body fat and increase lean mass was measured by bone densitometry at baseline and end of study
Improvement of the lipid and glucose profile, which was assessed by collecting blood and using the colorimetric technique on dry chemistry
Efficacy of a physical exercises protocol for legs in patients with venous chronic insufficiency

Efficacy of a physical exercises protocol for lower limbs in patients with venous chronic insufficiency- Clinic trial randomized

The sample will be composed of 20 individuals. After meet the eligibility criteria, all subjects will be evaluated by a blinded examiner using a questionnaire that will include socio-demographic data, associated diagnoses, CVI diagnosis time, detailed clinical and functional information, disease classification through CEAP criteria, morphological characteristics of the ulcer, if present, AAM, muscular Resistance, Functional capacity and issues related to quality of life of the patient (veines-QOL). In the next step, the subject will be properly allocated randomly into two evaluator-blind groups. All patients will receive health education classes that include information about and care and treatment available to improve symptoms and quality of life related to health disease (HRQOL). The patients in the GI (intervention group) will be subjected to physical therapy, performing, supervised way, the protocol proposed exercises in peripheral vascular physiotherapy clinic. Participants in the control group (control group) did not receive treatment during this period. After eight weeks of intervention, the two groups will be reassessed by the original examiner, blind and other past eight weeks, will be reevaluated.

Education classes in Health
individuals of both genders; aged between 35 to 69 years; diagnosed with Chronic Venous Insufficiency; ranked by criteria CEAP 2-6 without peripheral arterial disease associated, ankle index brachial between 1.3 and 0.9; with test ecco-doppler vascular venous

subjects who did not agree to participate in this study; who presented ulcers with a diameter greater than 4 cm or with clinical signs and / or confirmed diagnosis of infection; who are unable to attend the physiotherapy service twice a week and / or show inconsistent clinical manifestations with performing exercises such as congestive heart failure (class 3 or 4), angina, recent venous thrombosis, limiting musculoskeletal disorders or who have difficulty in understanding the activities.

Range motion (increasing degree of range of motion of the ankle,measured by an angular measurement device, at least 5%, after eight weeks of treatment)
Quality of life (improvement in quality of life, measured by veines-QOL instrument, observed by the difference of at least three points,after eight weeks of treatment) 
Study of alterations in the CYP2C19 gene and platelet activity in patients submitted to coronary angioplasty
Study of CYP2C19, ABCB1 and PON1 polymorphism in patients submitted to percutaneous coronary intervention and correlation to platelet aggregation in a brazilian population receiving simple and double anti-platelet therapy
At the index procedure, a blood sample from the patients will be obtained for DNA isolation. It will be used to identify polymorphisms in genes CYP2C19, PON1 and ABCB1. A sample size of 200 patients was calculated for a 5% confidence interval for the rare allele. A second blood sample will be used to measure platelet activity through light transmission aggregometry.
Patientes will be followed up for a year after their coronary intervention. In this year, where they already have clinically preset visits, clinical data, medication use and event occurrence will be obtained. Preset visits occur at 30 days, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year after the coronary intervention.
Consecutive patients submitted to percutaneous coronary intervention at the interventional cardiology unit at FMRP-USP.
Agreement with the consent form.
Patients submitted only to balloon angioplasty or with contraindication to clopidogrel use.
Comparison of patient platelet aggregometry (1) through light transmission aggregomety (2) in three time points, with double antiplatelet therapy, with aspirin only, and with clopidogrel only. In the case of aspirin, arachdonic acid is used to stimulate platelets. Aspirin resistance is considered when less than 80% of light is transmitted with 5 minutes of the assay. In the case of clopidogrel, ADP is used to stimulate platelets. Clopidogrel resistance is considered when less than 86% of light is transmitted with 5 minutes of the assay. Expected outcomes: 14.7% of clopidogrel resistance and 5% aspirin resistance.
The secondary endpoint is a composite of cardiac death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, stroke, new ischemia-guided revascularization and stent thrombosis (1) that will be evaluated through the patient follow-up and by going after the patient or his family if he does not show up at the follow-up visits until the end of the year (2) Expected outcome: we expect 7 to 8% of events in the first year.
Comparison between two surgical techniques for treatment of the primary pterygium
Comparison between rotation of conjunctival flap and amnionic membrane transplant in pterygium surgery
Test group: 126 eyes treated exeresis of the pterygium followed by a transplant of amnionic membrane. Control group: 102 eyes treated with exeresis of the pterygium followed by rotation of the conjunctival flap. Patients were divided into two groups through random table.
Primary Pterygium. Level II Pterygium. Healthy volunteers. Both genders. Age range 18 to 60 years.
Recidivated pterygium. Level I pterygium. Level III pterygium. Current ocular infection.
Recurrence in a period of a year after the surgery verified by visualization through biomicroscopy of corneal invasion by fibrovascular tissue in any extension, through statistical analysis using the significance test for equality of two proportions (significance level of 5%) in groups test and control.
No secondary outcomes are expected.
Body awareness therapy in women after breast cancer surgery
Effects of body awareness therapy in cardiac autonomic modulation of women after surgery for breast cancer
Will be divided into two groups. Group 1, 25 women who had breast câncer, a general assessment will be made, including old data, occupation, weight and height, waist and hip measurements, and for women who had cancer will be questioned the current physical therapy, type and date of surgery. Application of scales and questionnaires on quality of life, stress, anxiety, depression, self-esteem and body awareness, they being SF-36, HADS scale, Inventory LIPP, scale  Rosenberg and questionnaire BAQ.  The evaluation is done in a single day, only one body awareness therapy session will be held, which corresponds to a relaxation treatment includes deep breathing, attention to the parts of the body movement and self-massage, lasting 40 minutes. Will be evaluated data from heart rate variability, heart rate picked up by a heart monitor positioned in the chest with an elastic strap and a watch to be worn on the wrist for a period of 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after the session. Also will be collected vital signs of respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure at rest before and after the session. No procedure offers risk the integrity of the individual. In total the harsh assessment 100 minutes. Group 2,  25 women who did not have câncer, a general assessment will be made, including old data, occupation, weight and height, waist and hip measurements. Application of scales and questionnaires on quality of life, stress, anxiety, depression, self-esteem and body awareness, they being SF-36, HADS scale, Inventory LIPP, scale  Rosenberg and questionnaire BAQ.  The evaluation is done in a single day, only one body awareness therapy session will be held, which corresponds to a relaxation treatment includes deep breathing, attention to the parts of the body movement and self-massage, lasting 40 minutes. Will be evaluated data from heart rate variability, heart rate picked up by a heart monitor positioned in the chest with an elastic strap and a watch to be worn on the wrist for a period of 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after the session. Also will be collected vital signs of respiratory rate, oxygen saturation and blood pressure at rest before and after the session. No procedure offers risk the integrity of the individual. In total the harsh assessment 100 minutes.
Women undergoing removal surgery for breast cancer; regardless of the type of procedure; mastectomy or quadrantectomy; with up to 1 year after surgery. For the control group healthy women; who didn
For women who have had breast cancer include non-medical consent, diagnosed metastasis; be in period of treatment with chemotherapy or radiation.For women in the control group the exclusion will be present another diagnosed pathology or any other type of cancer.Exclusion for both groups include arrhythmias; cardiac pacemaker or transplantation.
Check that women who had breast cancer and went through surgery present changes in the autonomic nervous system when compared with women who did not have cancer and, if present, to analyze whether body awareness therapy can act beneficially on the balance of the autonomic nervous systems, which is measured by heart rate variability, through the Polar S810i equipment.
"Secondary outcomes are not to be expected" 
Daylight photodynamic therapy application in the treatment of a superficial skin carcinoma
Daylight photodynamic therapy application in the treatment of Bowen
Daylight photodynamic therapy will be performed in all patients diagnosed with Bowen 
Patients with clinical and histological diagnosis of Bowen´s disease at the Department of Dermatology of the Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre.

Patients with allergy to medications under treatment; porphyria; pregnancy; lactation; lesions in area of difficult sun exposure; lesions with clinically-suggested invasive carcinoma. 
complete response rate 3 months after treatment with daylight-photodynamic therapy evaluated with clinical and dermatoscopic picture by a blinded dermatologist.
Association between complete response rate with day climate and weather
The effects of physical therapy resources in the skin temperature of the abdominal region
Thermographic evaluation of abdominal region between different physical therapy dermatofuncionais resources
- Massage Modeling Group: 10 women with abdominal adiposity and will be randomized and receive sides molding massage with sunflower oil to facilitate application of the sliding maneuvers. It will be initiated by the sliding surface technique with flanking region slips toward the navel, on both sides. Will be held light and surface movements to achieve the speed and pressure as the desired goal. Then kneading maneuvers will be performed by manipulating subcutaneous tissues and muscles with alternating maneuvers compression and release. This technique is performed with rapid and profound maneuvers to promote local detoxification, stimulating blood and lymphatic drainage and producing faster elimination of toxins, more cellular nutrition. Will be held 20 minutes of modeling massage, totalizabdo 10 treatment sessions.
- Endermotherapy Group: will be randomized 10 women with adiposity in abdomen and flanks. Endermologie will be held in the abdominal region, in continuous mode with negative pressure intensity between 250 to 300mmHg. Longitudinal movements will be carried out (the lower region to the top) and transverse (from the outer to the inner). For the application will be used windy polypropylene, medium-sized, connected to roller and applied to the assessed region. Will be used sunflower 
40 college females; aged between 18 and 30 years; white race; presence of abdominal adiposity observed by the presence of protrusion of abdominal region even when the abdominal contraction with the patient standing; BMI classified as normal (between 18.5 and 25 kg / cm2) as overweight or (25 and 30).

Women in dermatofuncional treatment to reduce localized adiposity; patients with presence of cardiac; respiratory disease; diabetes mellitus; hypertension and cancer; Patients unable to provide a sensitive or changes in skin sensitivity feedback.
Skin temperature, given in degrees celsius, using infrared thermography. For the assessment of temperature changes infrared thermography was used. To capture the thermographic images was used an infrared camera brand Flir Systems® with digital image processing, thermal sensitivity of 0.08 ° C in spectral range 3-14 microns, suitable for application in clinical diagnosis. It was used for data analysis, Velocity 2.3 support software with automatic calibration. The participant was instructed not to perform physical activity, not to consume hot drinks and / or vasodilator drugs, do not smoke and do not use Cosmetic products in the skin 4 hours before the rating 10. The images were taken in a room with average ambient temperature of 22 ° C, controlled by an infrared thermometer, lack of sunlight and illumination cold light lamps (fluorescent). The participant kept the place of naked assessment in the standing position with feet together, anatomical position, with the camera positioned 1.2 meters away from the assessed region with a reference point on the umbilicus. a period of 15 minutes exposure to the skin come into thermal equilibrium with the temperature of sala10 was subsequently captured image of the abdominal region was expected (baseline - first evaluation). After the therapy according to the group that voluntary intervention was performed was called and immediately after the intervention, carried out another image capture (second evaluation). Followed 20 minutes after the application of the method of termination and voluntary maintained at rest, was held the last image capture (third evaluation). Expected increase in skin temperature of 1.5 ° C to expected effect.
Secondary outcomes are expected not.
Treatment program for changes in posture
Rehabilitation program of postural deviations
After the initial assessment 10 participants underwent the treatment, based on years of general stretching, strengthening, proprioception and balance that were performed in all positions (Supine, lateral and ventral, 4 pads, sitting and standing position). The strength exercises were associated with work central stabilization. Materials like elastic bands and Swiss balls are used to provide resistance and instability, respectively, on the movement. The sessions were conducted in groups 2 times a week at 5-month period, conducted and assisted by interns from the 4th year of physical therapy who were under the supervision of professionals.
Able participants performing physical activity, of both genders aged 11 to 28 years, medical referral and the presence of greater than 10, confirmed by measurement of the Cobb angle on colonography scoliosis, featuring structural curves or changes in kyphosis and lordosis and Statement of Consent signed by parents or guardians.
Use of prostheses and / or orthoses, surgeries of the spine, presence of scoliosis etiology of idiopathic not, pregnancy, difference in leg length greater than 1,5 cm thus determining a cause of scoliosis is not idiopathic.
Decreased spinal deformity, between 1st and 2nd assessment in all segments of the spine, with the difference of 0.15 cm in the thoracic, 0.45 cm in thoracolumbar and lumbar 0.25 cm. In measurements of lordosis in the sagittal plane, the results showed a decrease only as I regarding cephalic cervical lordosis, with 0.05 cm difference between assessments. In other measures an increase of 0.45 cm, 0.05 cm and 0.2 cm, respectively. The Cobb angle measured in 3 participants also showed decreased values ??of thoracic (1.5°) and lumbar (3.5°) bends. The figures showed that there was a decrease in most measurements, but when correlated with the number of meetings held by participants these changes were not statistically significant.
The exercise program was able to cause changes in spinal deformity measurements evaluated, the lordosis and sagittal Cobb angle in patients with idiopathic scoliosis. There was a significant difference only in the thoracolumbar spinal deformity, which decreased, and MIV, which increased, and may be associated with lack of control postural deformity or changes. However, the mean of the measurements show that after the intervention the trend is a decrease in forward head posture, gain thoracic kyphosis, which in most individuals this rectified, and improvement of the scoliotic curve shown by Cobb angle. However, for greater results requires that individuals have not reached skeletal maturity and home exercises are performed daily for maintenance or regression of scoliosis.
Training Program for residents in breaking bad news in perinatology using standardized patients 
Evaluation of a training program efficacy for residents in breaking bad news in perinatology using standardized patients 
Experimental Group: 30 residents (15 from pediatrics and 15 from gynecology and obstetrics) who participated in the first standardized patient encounter to break bad news to a mother about her baby
First to fourth year residents in the gynecology and obstetrics program at FCM Unicamp; first and second year residents from pediatrics; third and fourth year residents from the Neonatal program.
Third and fourth year pediatric residents from areas other than Neonatology.
Increase of empathic skills in residents at the end of the study.  Metric: Mean scores from the standardized patient evaluation checklist, from residents' self-evaluation checklist, and from the satisfaction questionnaire filled up by residents. These checklists and questionnaire will be adapted from the WEB OSCE SP checklist from Drexel University College of Medicine. The mean scores  post intervention will be compared between both groups: intervention and control
no secondary outcomes are expected.
Effects of different oils consumption associated with diet on weight loss
Effect of different fat sources consumption associated with low-calorie diet in controlling excess body weight
Control group: 22  overweight/obesity women with high body fat content will receive breakfasts daily for three months, containing a vitamin with soybean oil (25 ml) and differents cookies, breads and cakes, serving 35% of the nutritional requirements of volunteers.
Experimental group 1: 22  overweight/obesity women with high body fat content will receive breakfasts daily for three months, containing a vitamin with coconut oil (25 ml) and differents cookies, breads and cakes, serving 35% of the nutritional requirements of volunteers.
women; with 20 to 40 years old; overweight and with high body fat; basal energy requirements between 1200 to 1500kcal/day
presence of chronic diseases; weight and physical activity instability; use medication that affects some parameter assessed in the survey; smokers; pregnant or lactating; presence of eating disorders; presence of intestinal disorders; alcoholic.
Changes in body composition, such as decreasing at least 2 kg of body weight, assessed by electronic weighing-machine and decreasing body fat content, assessed by densitometry by dual energy Xray absorptiometry (DEXA) after 3 months of coconut and olive oil consumption in comparison with soybean oil
Decrease of intestinal permeability assessed by evaluation of  concentrations of urinary lactulose and mannitol and serum lipopolysaccharide. Increased feeling of satiety and reducing food intake, checked by applying visual analog scales (VAS) and 24 hours food records. Increased energy expenditure and the rate of lipid use as energy, verified by the measurement of energy expenditure and oxidation of energy substrates after consumption of breakfasts by open circuit indirect calorimetry. Improvement of blood biomarkers of metabolic syndrome (lipid profile,fasting glucose and insulin, uric acid and ketone bodies, C-reactive protein), systemic inflammation (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1 b, IL-10) and oxidative stress (superoxide dismutase superoxide oxidase, catalase and plasma antioxidant capacity), verified by laboratory techniques involving colorimetric enzymatic methods and/or immunological assays.  Change in intestinal microbiota composition, assessed by Fluorescende In Situ Hybridisation method (FISH). Decrease of genetic and molecular markers of fat cells formation and fat accumulation and changes in the form of fat cells checked by Real Time PCR and histochemistry.   
Integrated design : characterization of children with neurological disorders who perform physiotherapy

Integrated design: user characterization and effects of neuromotor intensive therapy  and aquatic physical therapy in children with neuromotor disorders
Both in retrospective studies ( phase 1 ) and in prospective (Phase 2) children will be assessed pre and post intervention intervention by module as the tone, GMFCS ( if applicable ) and GMFM 88 .
For prospective studies will be used pre- and post treatment by GMFM 88 and 66 , GMFCS , balance scale ( EEP ) , Observational gait assessment (EOM ) , activity of daily living through ORDERED , manual evaluation by MACS and QUEST quality of life using the CHQ- PF50 and PedsQL ™. anthropometric data will be used , analysis by EMG . When aquatic environment assessment will be through the AFAS scale.
clinical diagnosis of pathology that causes motor neurone disorder such as cerebral palsy syndromes or delays in motor development ; medical indication for the procedure; age 0-18 years; both sexes ; with consent by parents and / or family
subluxation of the hip ; acute fractures ; severe scoliosis ; uncontrolled seizures ; serious intellectual delay ; spasticity with severe angle 
development of motor skills in children with neuromotor disorders undergoing intensive neuromotor therapy , early stimulation and / or aquatic therapy evidenced by the increase in scores in percentage of GMFM at least 5%  
Balance improves evidencido by the EEP scores , improved posture analyzed by alignment values ??difference in photometry , improved quality of life. It is expected an improvement of at least 5 % in the average values ??in the variables balance , posture , quality of life measured by EEP instruments , photometry and PedsQL
Effects of intensity exercises in functional capacity in older woman 
Effect of High Intensity Interval Training protocol in functional capacity in older woman of Rio Pomba city - MG: A randomized controlled triall 
Squat exercise with High Intensity interval Training. Elderly control group will maintain the physical activity program of low to moderate intensity then in progress. The older the experimental group held after the regular program of physical activity equal to the control group, the squat exercise series at intervals and high intensity as following schedule: First and Second week = 1 set of 30 seconds; Third and Fourth week = 2 sets of 30 seconds with 2 minutes recovery / Fifth to Eighth Week = 3 sets of 30 seconds with a 2 minute recovery. The intensity will be measured by the Subjective Scale Effort and should remain between 15 and 17 (Hard and Very Hard).
Age greater than 65 years; group of practitioners Exercise and Wellness for more than three months; agreement to participate in the study and signed the free and informed consent
HIV patients; poorly controlled hypertension (SBP: 165 mmHg and / or DBP: 100 mmHg); decompensated diabetes (random blood glucose: 200 mg / dL); severe heart disease; severe neurological disorders; neuromuscular and musculoskeletal disorders incapacitating to perform the experimental protocol; neoplasms; patient unable to understand the objectives of the study and / or informed consent. There will also be excluded from the protocol those who submit, twice in succession or three times alternating, pressure values and / or glucose, above the pre-set values (criteria not included) during the training protocol and those missing protocol more than three times alternating or consecutive.

20% increase levels of strength of upper limbs, evaluated by dynamometry (Hand Grip) in the pre and post intervention measurements.
20% increase of the power levels of the lower limbs, measured by grip strength; 10% reduction of time in walk speed measured by the usual walking speed test of 15 feet and 10% reduction in the speed of time in agility test evaluated by test Time Get Up and Go, in the pre and post intervention measurements .
Effects of intense cycling and/or strength training on health-related blood parameters in type 1 diabetes mellitus patients
Effects of high-intensity interval training and/or strength training on inflammatory, oxidative stress and glycaemic metabolism in type 1 diabetes mellitus patients
High-intensity interval training (HIIT) or strength training (ST) or ST plus HIIT (ST+HIIT). Each group will be composed by 9 volunteers.
High-intensity interval training, in this case, is characterized by alternating periods of cycling at high-intensity with period of cycling at low-intensity. The strength training aims to promote muscle hypertrophy and muscular strength.  Comparisons will be applied betwwen before and after control period.
Patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus(diagnosis for over five year); physically inactive (less than 150 min weekly systematic exercise in the previous three months); with glycated haemoglobin less than 10%; age between 18-40 years.
Smoking patients; they with significant loss of renal function (creatinine 
Glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels determined via colorimetric biochemical assays. Reduction from checking a 0,379 effect size.
Oxidative stress parameters and inflammatory markers determined via colorimetric biochemical assays. 
Functionality, muscle strenght and balance in elderly woman after physical exercise and vitamin D supplementation
Functional capacity, muscle strenght and balance in elderly woman after physical conditioning, water aerobic and vitamin D supplementation
311 elderly completed the study
150 gave up
eldely woman; 60 years of age and older; 
practicing exercise at SESC ;
Acute disease; physical dependency; dementia
Found: improvement of muscle strenght - handgrip; improvement of balance - Time up and go Test
Observed: Increase of 25(OH)Vit D levels No change in body composition or bone health
Effect and tooth sensitivity caused by the use of hydrogen peroxide gel in at-home bleaching - clinical study.
Randomized clinical trial on the efficacy and tooth sensitivity of different concentrations of hydrogen peroxide.

Group HP 4% : will be held at-home dental bleaching in 35 volunteers for a period of 14 days. Volunteers will receive the syringe containing the bleaching gel and apply the product on the tray individually acetate, twice daily sessions of 30 min each .

Group HP 10% : will be held at-home dental bleaching in 35 volunteers for a period of 14 days. Volunteers will receive the syringe containing the bleaching gel and apply the product on the tray individually acetate, twice daily sessions of 30 min each .
Patients older than 18 years; good oral and general health; free maxillary anterior teeth restorations and do not carious lesion present; have the color of A2 or darker teeth according to the color scale Classical Vita (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany).
Patients who already underwent tooth whitening; pregnant or lactating patients; who report tooth sensitivity; staining tetracycline; fluorosis or endodontics; with parafunctional habits, patients with dental prostheses; appliances orthodontic.
 The difference in color between the baseline condition and 1 month post-bleaching will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations
The intensity of tooth sensitivity will be assessed using the numeric 5-point scale (NRS 0-4) and the visual analogue scale (VAS 0-10) and will be presented as means and standard deviations daily during dental bleaching,
Effectiveness of physical activity counseling and referral schemes in the leisure time physical activity of an elderly cohort: a randomized controlled trial
Physical activity promotion programs for the elderly: from diagnosis to action - a proposal for the Primary Health Care
Experimental group 1: 25 elderly of both sexes were given a standard counter-referral form (with a general recommendation for physical activity, along with the other recommendations) and a session of brief physician advice (specific to physical activity) oral and written.
Experimental group 2: 33 elderly of both sexes were given a standard counter-referral form (with a general recommendation for physical activity, along with the other recommendations), three sessions of individual counseling with a professional physical education (according to the level physical activity, physical fitness and preferences volunteer) and referral to a physical activity program near his residence.
142 people aged over 60 who were part of EPIDOSO / UNIFESP Project were included; who answered the International Physical Activity Questionnaire - IPAQ at baseline (2008 and 2009) and had no impediments to regular physical activity.
Have not performed the evaluation with the International Physical Activity Questionnaire - IPAQ at baseline (2008 and 2009); have impediments to regular physical activity.
When comparing the differences of the means of minutes of physical activity per week between the groups was observed that in the post-intervention 1 time there was a significant difference between Experimental Group 2 and Control Group(+148min/week, p <0.000) and between the Experimental Group 2 and Experimental Group 1 (+118min/week, p <0.008) and this difference remained in the post-intervention 2 (+140min/week, p <0.000 and +108min/week, p <0.019 respectively). There was no statistical difference between the means of minutes of Experimental Group 1 and Control Group in no time evaluation. 
 It was not observed secondary outcomes.
Constipation in students and its relationship to diet
Constipation in academics and its relationship with food consumption: prevalence and nutritional intervention
Group A: 35 students will receive four calls on nutrition, individually, with receipt and folders of explanation, namely the following topics: healthy eating; constipation; how to get a high fiber diet; types of dietary fibers.

Group B: 35 students will receive four calls on nutrition (the sessions will be in groups, with an average of 15 students per group), with receipt and folders of explanation, namely the following topics: healthy eating; constipation; how to get a high fiber diet; types of dietary fibers.
Constipation diagnosed from the Rome III Criteria
Under 18. Age of 60.
Reducing the number of criteria for constipation according to the Rome III criteria from the straining of finding and / or hard stools and / or evacuation of feeling incomplete and / or sensation of anorectal obstruction and / or manual operation in less than 25% the evacuation and / or more than three bowel movements per week
Increased consumption of dietary fiber evaluated by the Institute of Medicine's recommendations (Dietary Reference Intake) from the consumption of observation greater than 20 g / day or 14 g / 1000 kcal / day after educational sessions
Comparison of effect of bath performed before hip prosthesis surgery with three different solutions 
Comparison of preoperative bathing effectiveness with three solutions in patients undergoing hip arthroplasty: a clinical study
Two groups of intervention and a control group consisting of 153 patients undergoing hip arthroplasty, will be randomized to perform preoperative baths with chlorhexidine gluconate solutions to 4%, Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) 10% (interventions) and soap without antiseptic (control) for 18 months. All patients will be guided verbally by the researcher in relation to assistance and receive for holding bath a manila envelope, closed and listed with four sponges, a bottle with 100 ml of the random solution and an explanatory manual of how the bath should be done . The outside of the vials with the solutions will be involved with opaque tape covering the product name. Regarding the intervention the patient will be instructed to perform the bath throughout the body the night before surgery and the day of surgery. The head will be washed with shampoo only at night. The face is washed with a random solution and rinsed immediately. Then, with the closed shower patients will soaping entire body in the following order: trunk, arms, underarms, using a sponge, the end will be discarded. With another sponge the patient will lather the abdomen, legs, feet, genital and anal area, dismissing the sponge. Only after soaping the whole body the patient will perform the rinse. On the day of surgery the bath should occur earlier in the same manner except that the hair will not be washed and the site to be operated to be lathered for two minutes. The patient will not use deodorants, creams or powders after baths. The evening bath will be performed by the patient in his home and on the day of surgery by a nurse technician at the hospital. Patients will be instructed to use the bathroom at home, half the solution and two sponges. The other half of the solution and the remaining two sponges should be maintained in manila envelope and brought to the hospital on the day of surgery to the completion of the bath in the hospital. Before performing the bath, on the day of surgery, the nurse technician will ask the patient if he complied with the bath protocol the night before and check the material that was used. These strategies will be used as measures to confirm the patient
Patient with an elective procedure of total hip arthroplasty; age of 18 years or more; no report of infection at the surgical site; with access to landline or mobile; know autodiagnosticar informing the clinical signs of the infection or have a responsible with this ability; don
Patient treatment of surgical site infection; undergoing hip replacement surgery in urgency situations; emergency; orthopedic trauma; with a history of allergic reactions to the products used in the bath; underwent partial hip arthroplasty surgery; nasal Staphylococcus aureus carriers before surgery.
Presence or absence of Surgical Site Infection (SSI) in patients undergoing hip arthroplasty who used one of the three solutions (chlorhexidine gluconate 4%, 10% povidone and soap without antiseptic). The diagnosis of ISC will be performed using the diagnostic criteria Surgical Site Infection of the National Healthcare Safety Network/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention- NHSN/CDC. For the detection of ISC patients will be followed up by phone calls during the period of 30, 60 and 90 days or doctor's office. In the analysis of infections the SSI incidence rates for each intervention for comparison.  To determine whether associations found and differences are statistically significant will use the 5% significance leve. 
Comparison of demographic factors for groups of patients undergoing interventions: Mean age, sex, BMI, comorbidities. Allergic reactions by types of solutions. Evaluated for changes in the skin or respiratory, during use of the solutions 
Evaluation of the effects of a programme promoting adequate and healthy eating on adolescent health condiction: an interventional study
Strategy to promote healthy living and healthy eating style: an intervention study
sample consisted of 833 students (n=387/school underintervention; n=446/control school)enrolled in the 5th to 8th grades.

Intervention protocol (9 months)
Adolescents aged between 10 and 17 years old; and both genders;  enrolled in public  schools in Salvador, Bahia (BA) state, Brazil 
Students who refused to participate in the study; pregnant women and people with physical trauma (mobilized at the time of anthropometric measurements); Adolescents who did not participate in one of the stages of the research.
Students under intervention presented decreases of 7.64 mg/dL in mean total cholesterol (TC) (p=0.009) and 7.77 mg/dL in mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) (p=0.003)  compared with students who did not undergo intervention 
Students under intervention exhibited  increases of 18% in legume consumption (OR = 1.18; 95%CI 1.03-1.37) and 17% in vegetable consumption (OR = 1.17, 95%CI 1.01-1.35) compared with those who did not undergo intervention at the end of the 9-month follow-up.  No differences were noted in the anthropometric parameters studied.
The Impact of the Substitution of Convencional Salt for a Salt With Less Sodium on the Blood Pressure of Patients With High Blood Pressure
The Impact of the Substitution of Convencional Salt for 
Sample of 35 patients of both genders, aged between 20 and 35 years, without diabetes, with stable dose of antihypertensive medication for at least 30 days before the start of the study and uncontrolled BP (140 x 90) in the last appointment. Randomization: first patient consulted, included in GI Group Intervention (light salt, 19 patients). Second patient, included in the control group or GC (conventional salt, 16 patients) and so on. Inclusion of the patient in the study (before intervention): collection of gender, age, education, income, physical activity, smoking and alcohol. Inclusion and evaluation of the patient after intervention: collected variables systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) by casual measurements and Home Blood Pressure Monitoring (HBPM, and 24-hour urine for sodium and potassium. patients received 3 grams of salt/person/day for exclusive use in all foods/preparations for 4 weeks (the amount recommended by the VI Brazilian Guidelines on Hypertension - 3 g of salt/person/day), separated into packages without identifying the type of salt.
Patients which are regularly monitored by the League of Hypertension of the UFG
Patients with acute or subacute (up to 3 months before the start of the project). Unstable chronic diseases (diabetes mellitus, heart failure, liver disease, chronic renal failure, lung disease or other that, according to the researchers, could compromise the follow-up protocol). Patients, one or more days a week, eat lunch and dinner at places where they can not perform the preparation of meals using only salt supplied by the researcher.
The conventional salt group had reduction on systolic blood pressure from the casual measurement (p = 0,032). The light salt group had reduction on all blood pressure measurements from casual and Home Blood Pressure Monitoring (p < 0,05).
There was a reduction in 24-hour urinary sodium excretion on the light salt group (p = 0,016). The patients who used conventional salt did not have significant reduction on sodium excretion (p = 0,175).
Assessment of a home exercises program with HAM/TSP individuals
Assessment of a home exercises program with HAM/TSP individuals - randomized clinical trial
The participants will be divided into three groups by random distribution table of random numbers. Group 1 will consist of 17 individuals undergoing initially a training exercise program group during the 1st to the 16th week intervention and a second phase that comprise from the 16th to 32nd week held individually the same program exercise in your home guided by a booklet that will contain the description and illustration of all exercises. Group 2 consists of 17 patients will only make the home exercises using as a guide the same page. A third group, 3 or control group, composed of 17 individuals, will not be subjected to physical therapy intervention.
Individuals with diagnosis of HTLV-1 by ELISA and confirmed by Western Blot test. Have definitive diagnosis of HAM / TSP established according to the diagnostic criteria proposed by the World Health Organization. Having aged 2 to 59 years. Being able to stand. Subscribe to the free and informed consent.
Patients suffering from rheumatic diseases. Patients suffering from orthopedic diseases. Patients suffering from other neurological diseases. Patients with cognitive changes that compromise the understanding of the exercise program and evaluation tools used.
Increased joint angles of the trunk, hip, knee and ankle checked through the SAPO protocol, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention. The evaluation will be held one week before and one week after the intervention. 
Improvement in pain levels, verified by the Brief Pain Inventory, from the decrease in at least two points of the painful intensity of study participants before and after the intervention. The evaluation will be held one week before and one week after the intervention. 
Investigation of clinical pain during sealing treatment using topical anesthesia.
Clinical evaluation of intraoperative sensitivity in children undergoing preventive treatment using topical anesthesia with new anesthetic gel.
The resin sealant will be held on 36 and 46 teeth of 80 patients. A topical anesthetic liposomal thermosensitive (experimental group) or a placebo (control group) to be used in each of these teeth will be determined by randomization using blocks of size 2 and 4, in a sealed envelope will be the treatment indication tooth 36, the other treatment applied to the tooth 46. sealants 80 will be performed using the control group (placebo gel), and sealants 80 using the experimental group (topical anesthetic thermosensitive liposome gel). For the application of topical anesthetic or placebo quarters will be isolated with cotton rolls and agents applied around the tooth and gingiva (collar 1 to 2 mm) with the aid of an applicator tip. After three minutes, the clip 26 is positioned with a door-clip forceps to check the adjustment of the same, this time the pain of the risk will be assessed through a dichotomous scale prevalence, and intensity will be assessed using different scales (scale facial expression Wong-Baker, numerical 11 points and observational FLACC). The application of resin sealant is first carried out on the tooth 36. After isolation with a rubber dam, the enamel surface is etched with 37% phosphoric acid for 30 seconds, followed by washing with water and drying the surface with compressed air. The resin sealant is applied and light cured for 40 seconds. The same procedure will be performed on tooth 46.
Children 8 to 12 years with good general and oral health; the teeth 36 and 46 should be fully erupted and have sealant indication.
Teeth are not fully erupted or carious lesions that require restoration; also a history of allergy patients are excluded; any form of sensitivity or allergic reaction to anesthetics amide base; severe systemic disease patients not controlled as heart problems; neurological; kidney; liver or blood and even patients not employees.
Expected outcome: Number of patients reporting pain during the placement of a staple for absolute isolation after application of a topical anesthetic liposomal thermosensitive through self-report. This number will be transformed into percentage of patients with pain and is called absolute risk of pain.
Expected outcome: The pain of the risk will be assessed by dichotomous scale (yes or no) and will be presented as mean and standard deviation.
Simulation in the nursing student
Effect of simulation in the nursing student
30 nursing students participate individually in a clinical simulation of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the laboratory, using low-fidelity mannequins.
Second or third year degree in Nursing. To have 18 years old or more. Have not had prior contact with courses or first aid and emergency training.
Technical training in nursing. Professional role as technician or nursing assistant. First aid training. Participate in research projects or extension that deal with the subject will be excluded from the sample.
It is expected that students demonstrate greater self-confidence to act in an emergency after the simulation. Will apply to self scale before and after the clinical simulation of cardiopulmonary arrest in laboratório.Serão applied statistical tests to check the effect of simulation in the self-confidence of students, being considered significant p <0.05.
Not applied. 
Effectiveness of the Pilates method performed in the equipament or in the mat
Effectiveness of the Pilates method performed in the equipament or mat Pilates in the treatment of chronic non-specific low back pain.
Both groups will receive a protocol that consists of a specific training of the individual Pilates method exercises. The Mat Pilates group will receive a specific protocol, using a swiss ball, magic circle and elastic bands, while the Equipment Group will work with equipments - Reformer, Step Chair, Ladder Barrel and Cadillac. Each session will last for one hour, twice a week for six weeks.
Patients with low back pain longer than three months, of both gender and aged between 18 and 60 years.
The following criteria will be considered as exclusion: participants involved with the Pilates method regularly, pregnancy, previous surgery of the spine and lower limbs, history of spinal fracture, inflammatory disorders, rheumatic and neurological disorders, systemic metabolic disease, herniated disk, tumor, infection, osteoporosis, structural deformity , serious nervous commitment, do not understand the writing and speaking of the Portuguese language and participants who underwent physical therapy for chronic low back pain in the last six months.
Disability measured by the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire 
Kinesiophobia measured by the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia.
Study of the effects of manual lymphatic drainage in water and electrolytic mobilization and heart rate alteration in women in the reproductive and climacteric phases compared to the same parameters in men
Study of the efficacy of manual lymphatic drainage in hidroelectrolytic mobilization and heart rate variability in women in the reproductive and climacteric phases compared to the same parameters in men
Groups and procedures:

GI: Number of participants = 15 with women who do not use contraceptives:
ormotensos; Eutrophic (normal weight); Not having cardiovascular or respiratory system anomalies; Of endocrine diseases; Non-smoking and non-alcoholic; For perimenopause population may be included voluntary overweight; Self-declared healthy; For the young age group of 18-30 years; Perimenopause age range of 40-50 years.
Presence of acute infections and inflammations; phlebitis; thromboses or thrombophlebitis; hyperthyroidism; cardiopathies; chronic renal diseases; metaplasias and immune disorders; hypersensitivity of the carotid sinus; Use of diuretic medications; antidepressants; anxiolytics or any other medicinal treatments.
Alteration in the rhythmicity of cortisol production verified by the quantification of salivary cortisol.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Comparison between two physical therapy treatments for patients with limited movement of elbow joint and wrist
Comparative study of the effects of classical kinesiotherapeutic treatment and its effects coupled with Maitland technique in patients with limited movement of elbow and wrist
Experimental group: 20 patients (10 with elbow injury and 10 with wrist injury), submitted to 15 sessions. Each session began by thermotherapy, followed by static and dynamic stretching of all muscular groups of the involved joint, joint mobilizations as described by Maitland (grade III) and muscle strengthening.
Control group: 20 patients (10 with elbow injury and 10 with wrist injury), submitted to 15 sessions. Each session began by thermotherapy, followed by static and dynamic stretching of all muscular groups of the involved joint and muscle strengthening.
40 male or female volunteers; age between 18 and 70 years; limited range of motion of the wrist or elbow after upper limb fracture healing.
More than one year after the injury; neurological changes in muscle function.
A gain of 30 degrees has been found in both flexion-extension range of motion of wrist and elbow. To the movements of pronation and supination of the elbow and wrist radial and ulnar deviation, the expected results were found. There was no difference between groups and / or articulation.
Pain and functionality outcomes remained within expected in project with no difference between groups and / or articulation.
Comparing different techniques that may help epilepsy patients take their medicines
Compliance to drug therapy of Epilepsy patients
Control Group or Conventional Care Group: 30 epilepsy patients in ambulatory care that received individual orientation about the use of anti-epileptic drugs prescribed on medical consultation and elaborated a medication diary with the investigator. Group Intervention 01 - Cell phone Alarm clock setting:  Consisted of 30 epilepsy patients that besides the conventional care and elaborating a medication diary, also received guidance to use the alarm clock of their cell phones to take medication according to medical prescription. Group Intervention 02 - Pill Box organizer: A group of 30 epilepsy patients that received conventional care, elaborated a medication diary and received orientation to use a pillbox organizer with 28 spaces. The three groups were evaluated for 6 months in three moments; on the day the intervention was applied (first contact with the patient), six weeks after the intervention and six months after first contact. Blood levels of anti-epileptic drugs were also collected on these three moments.
Patients, from both genders, aged between 18 and 100 years-old, diagnosed with epilepsy in ambulatory care for over one year, with at least four years of school, independent in daily life activities, without mental and psychic disabilities, presenting  medium, or low adherence by the Morisky test.
Patients with medical prescription  with weekly or daily increase or removal of  anti-epileptic drugs,  including Carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital and valproate sodium; those that already use the resources tested in this trial to enhance compliance and with other chronic diseases in continuous  drug treatment.
Achieve after one month of the application of the interventions increase or maintenance in therapeutic values anti-epileptic drugs blood levels; reduction of the number of epileptic crises, reported by the patient; enhance compliance by the evaluation of the Morisky test. 
Stability of the positive effects after six months of application of the interventions (increase or maintenance in therapeutic values anti-epileptic drugs blood levels; reduction of the number of epileptic crises, reported by the patient; enhance compliance by the evaluation of the Morisky test).  
Acidity effect of whitening gel on the effectiveness and sensitivity of teeth after in office bleaching
Effect of pH of the bleaching gel in the effectiveness and tooth sensitivity after in office bleaching
It will be a study of split-mouth type to compare the tooth sensitivity and bleaching efficacy of two hydrogen peroxide gels with different pHs (acid pH [Pola Office, SDI] and the neutral pH [Pola Office+, SDI]
Patients will be included in this clinical trial were men and women; who were in good general and oral health; were required to have six maxillary and mandibular anterior teeth without caries lesions or restorations; the right superior incisor should be shade A2 or darker as judged by comparison with a VITA Classical value-oriented shade guide (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany). 
Patients will be excluded pregnant or lactating women; smokers; bruxism habits; severe internal tooth discoloration (tetracycline stains, fluorosis, pulpless teeth); gingival recessed; exposed dentine; who took anti-inflammatories, analgesics or antioxidants.
Expected outcome: Number of patients that report spontaneous pain in any moment of the bleaching protocol and up to 48 h post-bleaching, through self-report. This number will be presented as percentage of patients with tooth sensitivity and will be named absolute risk of tooth sensitivity.
Expected outcome: The difference in color between the baseline condition and post-bleaching (1 week and 1 month) will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations. 
PREVER Study: Efficacy of the combination of Chlorthalidone and Amiloride versus placebo in the prevention of hypertension in patients with prehypertension PREVER 1 Study
PREVER Study: Efficacy of the combination of Chlorthalidone and Amiloride versus placebo in the prevention of hypertension in patients with prehypertension PREVER 1 Study
Drug: Chlorthalidone 12,5 mg plus amiloride 2,5 mg once daily for 18 months
Drug: placebo once daily for 18 months
I. individuals with 30 to 70 years of age 
II. Systolic Arterial Pressure 120-139 mmHg or Diastolic Arterial Pressure 80-89 mmHg;
I. Previous diagnosis of hypertension or use of antihypertensive drugs;
II. Allergies to Chlorthalidone Amiloride;
Adverse events.  
I. All-cause mortality II. Incidence of Coronary Artery Disease (Acute Coronary Syndrome, need for revascularization, sudden death) III. Fatal and nonfatal stroke IV. Heart failure (requiring hospitalization) V. Duplication of plasma levels of creatinine or need for dialysis VI. Incidence of diabetes mellitus. VII. Microalbuminuria VIII. Hypokalemia IX. Hyperuricemia X. Left ventricular hypertrophy on Eletrocardiogram
Physiotherapy in pubalgy in soccer players
Physioterapeutic treatment of pubalgy in a professional soccer player: case study
Case study with 1 participant, football field athlete with pubalgia.
Assessment protocol: anamnesis (sociodemographic and clinical data), postural evaluation, lower limb cirtometry, flexibility assessment (lumbar paraspinal, iliopsoas, rectus femoris, hamstrings, hip adductors and upper and lower abhor) and strength (abductors of hip, adductors, quadriceps, iliopsoas, gluteus maximus, lumbar paraspinal, upper and lower abdominal), palpation of the pubic region.
Professional soccer player; age between 18 and 22 years old; active in the midfield position; presenting chronic pubalgy symptoms.
Athletes from different sports of football; amateurs Athletes; women; older than 22 years; asymptomatic; athlete who is having physiotherapy treatment.
To the upper abdominals muscles, in the initial evaluation, the subject had level 4 and in the last revaluation presented level 5 to these muscles. To the lower abdominals, the initial evaluation had level 3, and the last revaluation, the subject had level 4. The outcome was analyzed 1 day after the last intervention.
No secondary outcomes.
Cooling as an adjuntive therapy to angioplasty in patients with myocardial infarction.  
Cooling as an adjuntive therapy to percutaneous intervention in patients with acute myocardial infarction - 
Therapeutic Hypothermia adjunct to primary percutaneous coronary intervention versus primary percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with transmural myocardial infarction. There will be evaluated 70 patients divided into two groups randomly, both being treated with primary angioplasty, and one shall be subjected to hypothermia and the other control group without hypothermia. The expectation is that the study will last around two years, and patients will be evaluated during the first 30 days after surgery and were followed thereafter for a period of one year. At 30 days, all patients will undergo cardiac MRI to assess infarct size and its possible reduction due to hypothermia.
Patients aged
The patient had a previous myocardial infarction within one month; The patient has cardiogenic shock (systolic blood pressure (SBP) 
The primary endpoint is the reduction of infarct size compared to the myocardium at risk, studied by magnetic resonance imaging using standard T2 and late enhancement with gadolinium 5 days after AMI, in conjunction with SPECT 30 days after infarction.
Incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) and death within 30 days. Resolution of ST segment elevation after PCI, the ejection fraction determined by SPECT after 30 days. Evaluation of potential complications related to hypothermia and / or cooling endovascular within 30 days. Sub-analysis of patients with anterior MI.
Light therapy and electrical stimulation on functional performance in volleyball athletes
Low level laser therapy and neuromuscular electrical stimulation on knee extension strength and jump in volleyball athletes: a randomized controlled trial
INTERVENTION
All 36 healthy volleyball athletes who passed the initial selection and agreed to participate in the study, conduct a muscle strength and jump training program, which is held in both legs simultaneously. The training will be held in a period of six weeks with frequency of three times a week, totaling 18 training. The interval between one session and another will be 24 hours.
Healthy volunteers; volleyball players; gender male; non-smoking; aged between 17 and 18; weight within 15% variation limit of normal weight for male athletes, taking into account height and physique.
smoking volunteers; history of alcohol or substance abuse; diagnosis of cardiac, renal, gastrointestinal, hepatic, pulmonary, neurological, psychiatric, hematological or metabolic disorders; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Athletes have muscular strength of knee extension of dominant and non-dominant assessed by dynamometry, from a range of at least 10% in the pre-intervention ( 24 hours prior to intervention) and post intervention (24 hours after completion of the intervention). Athletes have jump height measured by the maximum range of the test from a variation of at least 10% in preintervention ( 24 hours prior to intervention) and post intervention (24 hours after completion of the intervention).
Athletes have the perception of the global effect of the jump evaluated through a subjective perception scale as it classifies tried his heels in these days, and can respond on a scale al -5 to +5 variation or very much worse better, from a variation of at least 10% in the pre-intervention ( 24 hours prior to intervention) and post intervention (24 hours after completion of the intervention). Athletes have evaluated the amount of jumps through the maximum number of hops test within two minutes from a range of at least 10% in the pre-intervention ( 24 hours prior to intervention) and post intervention (24 hours after completion of the intervention).
Effects of Exercise Program on Work Environment
Effects of Workplace Exercise Program: controlled and randomized clinical trial
Experimental group : 46 men and 20 women . Received gymnastics intervention with  muscle stretching  exercises for 10 weeks , 3 times per week lasting between 7 and 15 minutes.
Control group: 46 men and 20 women . During the survey period the control group received no intervention.
Volunteers of both sexes aged between 25 and 50 years; which they were in accordance with the methods and signed the informed consent form ; who worked in the factory production area.
Disability or depressive autorelato .
After gymnastics intervention, participants in the experimental group showed a reduction in stress and anxiety levels compared to participants in the control group.
There will be secondary outcome
Comparison of physical exercise in elderly
Comparison of physical exercise in elderly
Experimental group: 15 elderly women who hold Pilates exercises. Control group: 15 elderly women who undertake static stretching exercises. Both interventions contain twenty-four sessions for twelve weeks, twice a week, for an hour, in which 20 Pilates exercises (experimental group) and 20 static stretching exercises (control group) will be applied
Women
Cognitive impairment according to the Mini Mental State Examination; functional limitations in walking; the use of support devices; affirmative response regarding comorbidities
The isokinetic muscle strength changed significantly after three months of intervention group that received the Pilates sessions. No changes were observed in isokinetic muscle strength in the group that did stretching sessions
The postural balance, quality of life and flexibility have changed significantly after three months of intervention group that received the Pilates sessions. No change was observed in postural balance and quality of life in the group that did stretching sessions, this group improves flexibility was observed
Effects of Physical Therapy on  Temporomandibular Disorder in Patients with Fibromyalgia
Effects of Physical Therapy on Myogenous Temporomandibular Disorder in Patients with Fibromyalgia
"
Fourteen women between 30 and 60 years old; diagnosed with fibromyalgia; presented pain in the jaw, temples, face, preauricular area and ears at rest or during function  and palpation of three or more of the 20 muscle sites (tendon and temporalis, masseter, submandibular region, the lateral pterygoid area) muscle;   limited mouth opening; visual analogue scale (VAS) between 3 and 7.
 internal derangement of the temporomandibular joint, a predominantly mouth breathing pattern, systemic, pulmonary or cardiac musculoskeletal disease and history of trauma to the face or cervical spine.
The effects on pain in the temporomandibular joint area, neck pain and mental health were similar to those found in the control group, so the physical therapy protocol employed showed no effects on pain intensity.
Improvement in overall quality of life of the study subjects was observed as evidenced by the increase of the parameters of the SF-36 questionnaire.
Influence of suplementation of different types of fats on heart health.
LDL and HDL physical and chemical properties, oxidative and cardiometabolic biomarkers may be modulated by consumption of omega-3, omega-6 and omega-9 in individuals with intermediate cardiovascular risk?
Randomized double blind study
Both sexes, between 30 to 74 years old, medium and high cardiovascular risk.
Malnutrition, prengnancy, previous cardiovascular event, included in other clinical trial, using ilegal drugs, psychiatric alterations, allergic to any compound of intervention.
The omega 3 intervention promoted, in comparison to other fatty acids and placebo: Reduction of electronegative LDL, LDL(-) (-21%); Reduction of small LDL subfraction (-1.7%) and increase of large LDL subfraction (3.0 nm); Reduction of small HDL subfraction (-2.5%) and increase of large HDL subfraction (4.0%); Increase of paroxonase (PON1) (1.2%); Reduction of non esterified fatty acid (NEFAs) (-0.1%).
The omega 3 intervention promoted, in comparison to other fatty acids and placebo: Improve of lipid profile (-12% CT, -13.4% LDL-c, -23% TAG and +7.9% HDL-c). Improve of anthropometric parameters (-0.5 % body fat); Improve in blood pressure (-3.6 SBP e -4.7 DBP). 
Effect of Therapeutic Touch for preventing injuries in the feet of people with diabetes
Effect of Therapeutic Touch for prevention of Diabetic Foot
Will be enrolled in this study 60 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who will be randomly divided into two groups: Group (n = 30) and control group (n = 30). The Treaty Group, with 30 individuals, in addition to conventional medical treatment receive 12 sessions of Therapeutic Touch performed 3 times per week with an average duration of 40 minutes each session. The control group, with 30 individuals receive only conventional medical treatment and not receive sessions of therapeutic touch.
Volunteer with Diabetes Mellitus Type 2 diagnosed for at least five years; of both sexes; registered in HIPERDIA; medical care in the unit; over the age of 18 years; have at least one risk factor for impaired skin integrity, according to established nursing diagnosis 
Volunteers with cognitive disabilities; presence of foot ulcers; presence of amputations of the lower limbs; presence of thrombosis; uncontrolled hypertension; in other unconventional treatment modality.

There was improvement in scores related to skin and attachment and sensitivity
There was an improvement only in the biological marker of tissue temperature
Evaluation and treatment of changes due of pregnancy and postpartum
Evaluation and treatment of changes in gait, postural balance, strength of pelvic floor, sexual function, sleep and quality of life in cycle puerperal pregnancy:randomized Controlled Trial
A study of 68 pregnant women recruited through electronic disclosure and entered in Preparation Course of Pregnancy, Childbirth and Post delivery (CPGPP) will be held. Participants will be randomly divided into two groups, namely control group patients (GC - n = 34), who will attend only the Course for Pregnant Women; and pregnant women in the experimental group (EG - n = 34), which in addition to participate in the course, held
therapeutic exercises to improve balance and strength of the pelvic floor musculature, sexual function, sleep and quality of life.
 Does not provide obstetric and clinical  changes;  age between 18 and 37 years;  are in the second ( 16th to 20th weeks) or third (28th to 32th weeks) trimesters of pregnancy; confirmed by ultrasonography; were nulliparous;  single-fetus pregnancy;  no physical activity during the survey period; no history of depression or anxiety;  do not use drugs / substances that affect balance or sleep;  report changes in the quantity or quality of sleep;  no history of balance disorders and sleep before pregnancy;  has identified changes in postural balance through the Balance Master®;  absence of previous surgery in spine, pelvis, hip and knee;  no history of epilepsy and photosensitivity;  absence of musculoskeletal, cardiopulmonary and neurological disorders that prevent the completion of the evaluation and treatment protocols; no modifications of the pelvic floor muscles before pregnancy ;  no changes in sexual function before pregnancy; having a steady partner for at least six months 
to present clinical and obstetric change; be  under 18 and more than 37 years; be in the 1st trimester; be multiparous; twin pregnancy; physical activity during the study period; present history of depression or anxiety; make use of drugs / substances that affect balance or sleep; not report changes in the quantity or quality of sleep; report history of balance and sleep disorders before pregnancy; without alterations postural balance identified through the Balance Master®; report previous surgery on spine, pelvis, hip and knee; report history of epilepsy and photosensitivity, musculoskeletal, cardiorespiratory and neurological disorders that impede the completion of the evaluation and treatment protocols; report changes of the pelvic floor muscles before pregnancy; show changes in sexual function before pregnancy; not have a steady partner for at least six months
Criteria for removal of study: Miss three consecutive meetings or not the Preparatory Course for Pregnancy, Childbirth and Postpartum or the intervention sessions; complaining against any nuisance arising from stimuli demonstrably offered during the exercises; refused to complete the questionnaires and present obstetric complications during the period of the research.
Increased variable cadence after evaluation the gait by Qualisys and Visual 3D system, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Decreased width passed after evaluation the gait by Qualisys and Visual 3D system, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Decreased the speed of oscillation of the center of gravity after execution of the Balance Master System tests, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Increased variable ascent rate after the Balance Master System test execution, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Increased pelvic floor muscle activation assessed by electromyography, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95%
Increased quality of sleep, analyzed by specific questionnaire, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Reduction of excessive daytime sleepiness, analyzed by specific questionnaire, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95% Improved quality of life, analyzed by specific questionnaire, adopting a p-value of 0.05 and confidence interval of 95%
Volumetric evaluation of the face using three-dimensional technology: study on cadaver
Volumetric face reviewed: validation of three-dimensional facial image capture system for structured light technology: study on cadaver
Experimental group 20 bodies, arising from the 
Body to be subjected to autopsy in the Serviço de Óbitos da Capital de São Paulo
Bearded presence
Overview of the accuracy of volume measurement obtained by calculating with the use of three-dimensional mesh with the volume of saline used for the expansion of the tissue expander; The variation of the body hemiface volume will be calculated by means of three-dimensional images obtained by light MRI scan surface structured with the use of a computer program, taking as a parameter the controlled volume of saline infused into the tissue expander.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Muscle stretching exercise and emotional stress in pregnants
Effectiveness of muscle stretching in cortisol levels and in emotional stress of  third trimester pregnant women: a randomized clinical trial
The sample was consisted of 18 women aged between 18 and 40 years, they were divided randomly into 2 groups (control and experimental) by lottery. The intervention took place in January and February 2011. Women should be in the third trimester of pregnancy, medical release, prenatal tests up-to-date and junior high school completed. Exclusion criteria were defined as rheumatic diseases, neurological, metabolic and/or cardiovascular disease, smoking and/or alcohol consumption, body mass index greater than 35, recent treatment with corticosteroids and practice regular physical activity over the past three months. There were two blood samples taken by a skilled professional, one before and one after the full implementation of the protocol consisted of 12 muscle stretching exercises with a series of three repetitions, and 20 seconds interval between them. The protocol was applied two times per week during a month.The mucles  aimed were shoulder abductors, elbow extensors, hamstrings, abductors of the lower limbs, paraspinal (cervical, thoracic and lumbar), hip flexors, plantar flexors. We applied the instrument known as the Perceived Stress Scale (Perceived Stress Scale - PSS).
Women aged between 18 and 40 years old in the third trimester of pregnancy. They must had medical release for physical activity, prenatal tests up-to-date, junior high school completed and agree to sign the consent for the research. 

Rheumatic, neurological, metabolic and/or cardiovascular diseases, smoking and/or alcohol use, body mass index greater than 35, recent treatment with corticosteroids and regular physical activity over the past three months.
It was expected to reduce and/or maintain cortisol levels and reduction of The Perceived Stress Scale score after the intervention. The procedures consisted of the recording of personal and anthropometric data, application of the Perceived Stress Scale. This instrument was administered before and after eight sessions of stretching. Plus blood test.
None.
Effects of two training programs: aerobic and resistance in muscle strength, physical fitness and muscle pain in participants with blood pressure, abdominal obesity, cholesterol and glucose levels impairments
Effects of two periodized training programs: aerobic interval and resistance training in isokinetic strength, physical fitness and clinical parameters on Metabolic Syndrome
Resistance Training: 18 men with metabolic syndrome will perform exercises on weight machine, ranging weight between 30 and 100% of 1RM.

Aerobic training: 18 men with metabolic syndrome will walk or run on a treadmill with intensities between 20 and 90% of 
Sedentary men; between 35 and 60 years; diagnosed with Metabolic Syndrome
use of drugs or medications, except those used to control the risk factors of Metabolic Syndrome; presenting amenorrhea; inflammation and or infection; episode of muscle tendon or osteo articular injury in the upper, lower limbs and or spine in the last three months; respiratory diseases; neurological disorders and cardiovascular disease at high risk 
Improved physical fitness after 16 weeks of training assessed by the functional tests of American Alliance for Health Physical Education, Recreation and Dance AAHPERD. measured by the final score of the motor tests and verified by the increase in the score according to the classification by age
Improved functional capacity after 16 weeks of intervention, assessed by the 6-minute walk test and measured in meters of distance and verified through statistical analysis of the mean pre and post intervention
Pain assessment after treatment of channel two different preparation techniques of the root canal
Postoperative pain after the use of different kinematics in root canal preparation: a randomized clinical trial
 Sixty-two patients will be randomly allocated into two groups varying the technique of root canal preparation: 31 patients using instrumentation with Reciproc (R) and 31 patients using the instrumentation with Protaper Next (PN), control group. The two different root canal preparation techniques will be compared. The allocation will be made by a person who will not perform endodontic treatment. After the patient
Patients aged 18 to 50 diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis and pulp necrosis in molars that do not show symptoms before starting treatment will be selected for the study.The root canals of the teeth to be treated should present curvature of up to 25 ° measured according with the Schneider method (Schneider, 1971).
Ingestion of any type of medication before treatment; presence of internal or external resorption; periapical pathology; lockjaw; ankylosis; periodontal index score less than 3; systemic disease; Bad severe tooth position; history of trauma; pregnancy; Bad severe occlusion associated with traumatic occlusion; anterior teeth; lack of patient compliance; intolerance history of the anti-inflammatory drugs nonsteroidal; and the presence of teeth that require endodontic retreatment.
Expected Primary endpoint is the presence of postoperative pain after endodontic treatment in two groups (A Reciproc Technique and B Protaper Next Technique), the pain presence is evaluated using a xxx scale for periods of x xh and x days the results will be presented by percentage and applied statistical test is xxxxx test.  The intensity of pain experienced by patients after endodontic treatment in the Reciproc group was similar to those in the ProTaper Next group (p > 0.05). In both groups, the highest levels of postoperative pain were recorded 24 h after each procedure, but these levels decreased after 72 h and 7 days after endodontic therapy, although differences were not significant (p = 0.55).
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Relationship of female sexuality with physical activity, depression, quality of life and muscle force
Female sexual function: relationship with physical activity, depression, quality of life and functionality of the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles
This is an observational, transversal study, to be conducted with 88 female university, over the age of 18, who have active sexual life and no have children
Undergraduate; students of Biological Sciences Sector courses of the Federal University of Parana; female; over the age of eighteen; who have active sex life; that has not pregnant; without distinction of race; without distinction of sexual orientation; without distinction of class social. 
Women in pregnancy; sexual abstinence in the past six months; suffering from neuromuscular diseases; which do not show integrity to the pelvic floor sensitivity test or had a surgical procedure in abdominal/pelvic or musculoskeletal surgery region in the lower limbs at least six months; women who are making use of psychiatric drugs for example antidepressants and anxiolytics.
We expected to find moderate statistical correlation (greater than 0.30), suggesting that women with lower levels of sexual function are associated with worse functionality of the abdominal and pelvic muscles.
We expected to find moderate statistical correlation (greater than 0.30), suggesting that women with lower levels of sexual function are associated with physical inactivity, depression and lower quality of life.
Effect of simulation in the nursing student
Effect of simulation in the nursing student
30 nursing students participate individually in a clinical simulation of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the laboratory, using high-fidelity mannequins.
Second or third year degree in Nursing; to have 18 years old or more, have not had prior contact with courses or first aid and emergency training.
Technical training in nursing; Professional role as technician or nursing assistant; having first aid training; participate in research projects or extension that deal with the subject.
As primary outcome is expected that students demonstrate greater knowledge of cardiopulmonary resuscitation after simulation. a questionnaire to assess the knowledge of cardiopulmonary resuscitation before and after clinical simulation laboratory will be applied. statistical tests will be applied to check the increase in knowledge of cardiopulmonary resuscitation is considered significant when p <0.05.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Influence of different treatment forms with low temperature on the muscle and heart function in recovery after effort
Influence of different cryotherapy protocols on muscle performance and cardiac autonomic modulation in acute post-effort recovery
Experimental group: 80 volunteers will receive cold water immersion in water with temperature of 5 or 10 degrees Celsius for 5 or 10 minutes, in a according to randomic decision.
Control group: 20 volunteers will keep in a sitting position for passive recovery in a controlled environment.
Healthy; male; aged between 18 and 35 years; students in undergraduate or postgraduate public higher education institutions or private.
Presence of musculoskeletal injury in dominant leg in the last two months; Raynaud
The expected primary outcome is that recovery in muscle performance is higher with cold water immersion (CWI) than passive recovery (PR). The muscle performance will be assessed by maximal isometric force (MIF), in kilogram-force (kgf), identified from a maximal isometric voluntary contraction (MIVC) test performed before and after an exhaustion test in submaximal intensity (40 or 80 %MIF). For this purpose a load cell will be used. Under these conditions, it is observed reduced levels of maximal force. The recovery of the MIF will be stimulated by means of CWI, with variations on temperature and immersion time. 15 and 30 minutes after the exhaustion again the MIF will be evaluated to check their return to pre-exhaustion levels. In the same times that the MIF was evaluated, it will also be collected electromyographic (EMG) activity of the vastus lateralis, rectus femoris and vastus medialis muscles using surface electromyography. A load cell and an electromyography device (Miotec Biomedical Equipment) with calibration of gain of 1000, sampling frequency of 2000 Hz, high-pass filter of 10 Hz, low-pass filter of 500 Hz and notch-filter 60 Hz. The software used to evaluate the EMG signal and muscle force will be Miotec Suite. Root mean square (RMS), in microvolts, and median frequency (MF), in hertz (Hz), values will be obtained from EMG signal. The increase in RMS values and the decrease in MF values after exhaustion are classic evidence of the occurrence of muscle fatigue, while the return of these values to pre-exhaustion values are indicative of recovery of muscle function. Finally, also for evaluation of muscle function, successive RMS and FM values obtained every 0.5 second of recorded EMG activity of exhaustion test will be correlated with exhaustion time using simple linear regression model. This procedure allows to obtain the degree of increase of the electrical activity of muscles (RMS versus time) or decrease of the firing rates of motor neurons(MF versus time) by the slope coefficient of these variables which are also indicative of muscle fatigue. After the CWI not only MIVC but also submaximal contractions will be performed again, at 15 and 30 minutes, but these lasting 10 seconds. Correlations of RMS and MF values will be performed again with the contraction time and this will enable the achievement of new slope values. The return of these values to levels close to pre-exhaustion values is similarly a established indicative of muscle recovery. Both tests (maximum and submaximal) will always be performed in an isometric way with the dominant lower limb in the same position, with the knee kept flexed 90 degrees and in the same chair tests developed for research.
Secondary outcomes expected are related to additional variables investigated in this study. They are: perceived exertion (PSE), delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) and heart rate variability (HRV). For the PSE will use the Borg CR-10 scale, a scale in which volunteers verbally express their perceived effort. This will occur immediately after, 15 and 30 minutes after the exhaustion test. In these same times, in order to capture the RR-intervals parameters, for analysis of heart rate variability (HRV), a chest belt will be placed over the precordium region and a heart rate receiver (Polar V800 - Polar Electro, Finland). HRV analysis will be performed from RR-intervals series at a sampling rate of 1000 Hz. Digital filtering will be supplemented by manual filtering in order to remove the artifacts, ectopic and premature beats. The extraction of each cardiac period (RR-interval) will be analyzed using Kubios HRV Analysis Software. For analysis in time domain, mean RR, RMSSD, e SDDN indices will be analyzed, expressed in milliseconds. In the frequency domain the spectral components of very low frequency (VLF), low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF) will be used. For the quantitative analysis of the Poincaré plot (PP), SD1 and SD2 will be utilized. Finally, the DOMS will be assessed using a visual analog scale (VAS) with 10 cm, with 0 indicating the absence and 10 maximum pain intensity. The scaling will be applied immediately, 24 and 48 hours after exhaustion test. For PSE and VAS, the reduction of these indices after cold water immersion (CWI) are expected, ie, reduced or absent levels of effort and pain perceived. In the case of HRV are expected positive effects of CWI in restoring cardiac autonomic modulation, with the indeces related to this analysis being reinstated in the post intervention for recovery assessments.
Clinical trial on the effects of a Hydrotherapy protocol Neonatal Intermediate Care Unit
Clinical trial on the effects of a Hydrotherapy protocol Neonatal Intermediate Care Unit
hydrotherapy protocol
preterm infants with gestational age less than or equal to 32 weeks ; Hospitalized Neonatal Intermediate Care Unit; in spontaneous breathing ; without central or peripheral venous access ; babies without congenital malformations or chromosomal syndromes or infections in treatment ( change of blood count and blood culture positive ) or neurological disorders ( intracranial hemorrhage grade III or IV, and brain malformations ) ; without skin lesions or other contraindications to body immersion in hot water
adverse reactions to the study protocol (cyanosis , crying or lethargy, facies pain , generalized hyperemia , among others); Epidermal changes ; worsening of symptoms ; intolerance to food or behavioral disorders; events that prevent the study protocol ( need for ventilatory support or intravenous and surgical procedures ) ; parents and / or guardians who request to withdrawn from the infant study protocol
Weight gain during hospitalization in Iintermédiários neonatal care unit
Effect on vital signs ( heart rate , peripheral oxygen saturation , axillary temperature ) , salivary cortisol levels and the behavioral state ( sleep and wakefulness scale ) before and after intervention; and  effect on the length of stay and neurobehavioral development 
Effect of the use of body image stimulation in the treatment of ankle sprains in athletes
Effectiveness of motor imagery in the treatment of ankle sprains in athletes
Intervention group: will be 25 athletes with ankle sprains. These will receive the normal treatment for ankle sprains based on electrotherapy and kinesiotherapy, an associated motor imagery training. For that will be used a computer program that projects images of the ankle and the individual must determine whether the image is a right or left ankle. The treatment will be performed daily, five days a week until discharge clinic.
Control Group: will be 25 athletes with ankle sprains and only carry the standard treatment recommended for ankle sprain, similar to the intervention group without motor imagery.
Athlete
Sprains associated with lower limb bone fracture
The outcome of the study will be analyzed according to variables collected at the beginning and end of treatment for ankle sprains, which are: Ankle girth: The perimeter will be made with the aid of a tape measure placed around the ankle in the form of "8" through the following points: tuberosity of the navicular bone, the base of 5th metatarsal, the medial malleolus, the lateral malleolus the tendon of the tibialis before. The participant is supine with the ankle in neutral position. Questionnaire Cumberland Ankle Instability: will be used for the evaluation of functional instability presented by the participants. Star Excursion Balance Test: test that assesses dynamic balance. Range of motion of the ankle: The measurement of ROM of the ankle will be in a position to deposit the load and is therefore closer to a functional condition. Total duration of treatment. Relapse number of sprain after treatment.
-
Population survey on the prevalence of cardiovascular disease - multidisciplinary intervention in adults with  hypertension 


Population survey on the prevalence of risk and protective factors for cardiovascular disease in the metropolitan region of Maringá
Intervention Group (16 weeks – 48 meetings)with 21 participants
Advising on health and nutrition
Medical certificate of fitness to practice physical exercises; interest and willingness to regularly attend the activities of the intervention; accepting perform all physical and biochemical evaluations on two occasions (before and after the start of the activities of the GI)
Presenting disability to carry the exercise; do not accept accomplish all assessment proposals
Completed study  Lower blood pressure  Group Intervention (IG)  Activities were carried out such as: Nutritional guidelines: once a month, lasting an hour, totaling four meetings. Health guidance: once a week, lasting an hour, totaling 12 meetings. Performing aerobic exercise, three times a week, totaling 48 meetings, lasting 60 minutes each section. The physical exercises were divided into three stages: initial warm up and stretching (15 minutes) aerobic activity, followed by localized exercises (35 minutes), and ultimate stretching (10 minutes). The intensity of exercises varied between mild to moderate, and according to the limits of each person, using the cardiac frequency meter to estimate the appropriate rate to physical activity. The maximum heart frequency was calculated by the formula: 220 (-) age, and the heart frequency was established between 40-60% of the maximum heart frequency (Nieman, 2011). All people were monitored for the value of blood pressure in all sessions. Blood pressure was measured by the nurse - at the beginning (after 15 minutes of rest) and the end of the activities, as recommended by the VI Brazilian Guidelines for Hypertension, using the manual blood pressure monitor Missori®. The systolic blood pressure (SBP) was considered high when presented values equal or higher than 140 mmHg and diastolic (DBP) when presented values equal or higher than 90 mmHg (Brazilian Society of Cardiology, 2010).  The group began its activities with 21 people. Six participants gave up in the first month. In the second month other six people gave up, coming to the end (16 weeks) nine people, in the group. Because of given up, people who participated to the physical activities for two months or for four months were divided into two different groups for the analysis. In the Intervention Group A (GIa) were included people who attended 16 weeks - (n = 9 - often 100%).  In the Intervention group B (GIb) were included people who attended 08 weeks - (n = 6 - often 50%).  As a result, the GIa group showed a statistically significant reduction in systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure (132.2 ± 13.9 to 118.9 ± 8.7, p = 0.036 and 86.7 ± 9.4 to 77.8 ± 6.3, p = 0.041, respectively).  The GIb group presented a decrease in systolic blood pressure, which was statistically significant (143.3 ± 11.0 to 121.7 ± 14.6, p = 0.024), and also a decrease in diastolic blood pressure, but there were no statistically significant difference (95.0 ± 7.6 to 83.3 ± 12.5, p = 0.104).  Control group (CG)  Blood pressure was measured by the nurse - before and after the 16 weeks of intervention, as recommended by the VI Brazilian Guidelines for Hypertension, using the manual blood pressure monitor Missori®. The systolic blood pressure (SBP) was considered high when presented values equal or higher than 140 mmHg and diastolic (DBP) when presented values equal or higher than 90 mmHg (Brazilian Society of Cardiology, 2010).  As a result, the control group showed a decrease of systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure (138.7 ± 13.8 to 128.7 ± 16.3, p = 0.112 and 88.7 ± 11.5 to 84.7 ± 9.6, p = 0.324, respectively) with no statistically significant difference.   
Completed Study  Intervention Group (IG)  Anthropometric measurements The weight and anthropometric indicators - body mass index (BMI), waist-hip ratio (WHR) and body fat percentage (PGC) were determined by assessing body composition - multifrequency bioimpedance In Body brand, model 520®.  Height was determined (in meters) with an anthropometric tape. As anthropometric indicators were used BMI, waist circumference (WC), waist-hip ratio (WHR) and hip circumference (HC). The BMI cut-off point used was that recommended by the WHO (World Health Organization, 2000) and is considered obese people with BMI > 30 kg/m2. The AC was measured at the midpoint between the costal margin and the iliac crest using a tape measure, and was considered abnormal when above 102 cm for men and 88 cm for women (World Health Organization, 2000). The waist-hip ratio was defined as the largest circumference around the buttocks above the gluteal fold, and considered inappropriate when above 0,90cm for men and 0,85cm for women.  As a result, the GIA, after 16 weeks, showed a decrease in values of all anthropometric variables, and revealed significant differences for CQ (108.9 ± 11.6 to 106.4 ± 12.1, p = 0.042) and WHR (1.00 ± 0.07 to 0.99 ± 0.07, p = 0.030).  The GIB showed a decrease only in the WHR (0.98 ± 0.06 to 0.97 ± 0.05).  Biochemical variables Blood samples were collected for measurements of total cholesterol (TC), high density lipoprotein (HDL-C), low density lipoprotein (LDL-C), triglycerides (TG) and plasma glucose levels. All subjects were instructed to fast for 12 hours.  As a result, the GIa had changes for all variables, and HDL showed a significant difference (50.4 ± 6.6 to 54.2 ± 7.8, p = 0.034).  The GIb showed changes in biochemical parameters of glucose, HDL and TG, with no statistically significant differences.  Control group (CG)  All 21 participants underwent the same anthropometric and biochemical assessments that the intervention group, before and after 16 weeks of intervention.  Showed a slight decrease in body fat percentage (38.0 ± 6.4 to 37.9 ± 6.9) and CQ (105.3 ± 6.4 to 103.6 ± 5.7), both showed no statistically significant difference.  The changes in biochemical variables showed a decrease in glucose parameters, TC, HDL and TG, with no statistically significant differences.    
Flour of tamarind as a tool for the health control of diabetic patients
Flour of tamarind as an adjuvant in metabolic control of diabetic patients. 
A flour of tamarind will be developed, for which analysis of its composition and sensory analysis will be performed, as well as its microbiological safety. Also be known their glycemic index, that is, its potential to alter blood glucose. Thereafter 200 diabetics are selected, of which 100 are controlled glucose (below 130 mg / dL) and 100 without proper (above 130 mg / dL) control. Each group will be divided into two, one for intake of tamarind flour and one for intake of placebo, each for 1 month. During this period, the group will intake a 1 sachet of the two products: flour or, or placebo. Weekly, both groups(intervention and control), in addition to receiving the products, have your blood glucose monitoring. Will be held one meeting a week with each member of the groups (intervention and control). All will do the least kind of monitoring. Will be given the amount of the product for the next week and will be measured their blood glucose. At the beginning and at the end of 30 days glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL and HDL will be assessed in addition to the assessment of food, weight, height, waist circumference and hip. So will 100 patients for intervention (50 with controlled glycemia and 50 without proper control) and 100 patients to control (50 with controlled glycemia and 50 without proper control). Intervention group receiving sachets with tamarind flour and control group receiving a thickening without glycemic effect. Finally, statistical analysis will be performed to check for differences between groups at baseline and after the intervention.
Male or female; presence of diabetes mellitus type 2 diagnosed at least two years; being regularly monitored by the institution; be adult or elderly; having a body mass index (BMI) of overweight; be in use of oral hypoglycemic agents; not be in use for insulin; have no known diseases except commonly associated with the presence of diabetes mellitus type 2; live in the city in order to facilitate monitoring. Search sample is 200 patients.
Any factor that limits anthropometric assessments of weight, height or circumference.
Detection of a reduction in total cholesterol 7 to 10%, measured in plasma, in pre-intervention  and post-intervention (4 weeks) measurements using enzymatic colorimetric method.
Detection of a reduction in fasting glucose from 7 to 10%, in the pre-intervention and post-intervention (4 weeks) measurements, by enzymatic colorimetric method. 
Hidroterapy for sensory losses treatment in diabetic woman´s foot
Whirlpool Therapy Effects on Sensory Losses in Diabetic Woman´s Foot

Experimental Group (N=11): 
Whirlpool therapy and exercise - Each volunteer will be positioned on the mobile equipment seat, in a neutral sitting posture.   Subject´s legs and feet will be immerse in water (below knee level; 35 degrees celsius) for 20 minutes.  Exercises in the Whirlpool - 10 series of (1) dorsiflexion and plantar flexion; (2) inversion and eversion; and (3) pronation and supination. They will rest 2 minutes among the series and they will complete the 20 minutes at rest. We will apply 14 sessions, twice a week.
Medical diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus; sedentary lifestyle; Aged between 40 and 70 years old; Diabetic Neuropathy
lower extremity wounds; orthopedic or neurological disorders in lower extremities; treatments with sensory influences; male gender; Age below 40 years; Age over 70 years


We hope that the pressure sensation of diabetic women´s feet (assessed by 10-g monofilament) increases significantly  (p<0,05) after 14 sessions with whirlpool theraphy.  
We hope that the balance of diabetic women (assessed by Brazilian version of the Berg balance scale) increases significantly  (p<0,05) after 14 sessions with whirlpool theraphy.
Evaluation of the use of a nasal spray containing a small amount of seawater, after nasal surgery and its impact on improving the quality of life of patients
Evaluation of the use of a nasal spray solution of sodium chloride 0.9% in the immediate postoperative septoplasty and turbinecotomy and its impact on quality of life of the patient
Experimental group: 53 patients undergoing post turbenectomy and septoplasty hold the nasal spray solution of sodium chloride 0.9% 6 times a day until the end tube tablets containing 500mg paracetamol and 30 mg of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride with 2 tablets every 8 hours for 3 consecutive days and prednisolone 40mg tablets 1 tablet a day for five consecutive days. Control group: 53 patients undergoing septoplasty post turbenectomia and hold the use of tablets containing 500 mg of acetaminophen and 30 mg of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride 2 tablets every 8 hours for 3 days straight and prednisolone 40mg tablets 1 tablet a day for five consecutive days
Both sexes; between 18-65 years; indication for surgery septoplasty and inferior bilateral turbinectomy with dislocation of the turbinate; agreement to abide by the procedures and requirements of the test and attend to the Office (s) day (s) and time (s) given (s) for the evaluations
Use of other nasal decongestant; use of analgesics and corticosteroids not described in the protocol; hypersensitivity (allergy) to components of the formula; use of topical medication in the nasal region; pregnant and lactating women; drinking alcohol during treatment; another surgery associated; 
Use of Gelfoan; packing and splints; 
Decreased crust formation and mucosal edema and increased ease of removal of the crust in the test group by applying a questionnaire after 3 and 10 days of surgery from the observation of variation of at least one point in clinical scale questionnaire
Evaluate the safety of the investigational product through causal analysis of reported adverse events throughout the study
Effects of a technique applied by the hands of the therapist in the thoracic spine in patients with temporomandibular joint and cervical disorders
Effects of high thoracic spine manipulation on temporomandibular and cervical disorders
Experimental group (n = 10): Women who received the manipulation technique of high speed and low amplitude in the upper thoracic region of the spine in a single session.
Placebo group (n = 10): Women who received the simulation technique, no therapeutic effect in a single session, staying in the same position in the experimental group, with the difference did not receive the thrust of high speed and low amplitude.
All volunteers must have:
Diagnosis of temporomandibular disorders (TMD) according to the RDC / TMD (Ia, Ib, IIa, IIb, IIc and IIIa);
Missing teeth;
Open bite;
Reduction of electromyographic activity of masticatory and cervical muscles at rest and an increase in this activity after isometric manipulation technique, evaluated using surface electromyography, by RMS parameter.  
Analgesic effect in masticatory and cervical muscles after manipulation technique, assessed by visual analogue scale and algometry.
Exercise Effect On Balance And On Falls Risk Among The Elderly Living In The Community
Impact Of A Therapeutic Exercise Program On Physical And Functional Capacity And On Risk Of Falls Among Community Elderly
There will be a randomized controlled clinical trial. The study sample will consist of 40 community-dwelling elderly (
Elderly volunteers; aged 60 years; both sexes; residents in the community (non-institutionalized); with history of one or more falls in the previous year or at risk of falling; that agree to participate and sign the consent form.
Volunteers in bedridden or wheelchair situation; score less than 17 on the Mini Mental State; severe visual impairment; amputations or use of lower limb prostheses; neurological disease; acute crisis related to vestibular in the last month; history of recent fractures in the lower limbs.
Improved dynamic balance determined by the reduction of 1.76 seconds (17%) in the alternate step time comparing the initial and final performance. Improved flexibility determined by the increase of 3.07 cm (15%) in the distance of the sit and reach test comparing the initial and end performance. Reduced risk of falls determined by decreasing of 1.75 degree (39%) of the oscillation in the Falls risk protocol on the Biodex Balance System platform comparing the initial and final performance.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Effect of overload and relief of air excess in the lungs on exercise capacity in people with Pulmonary Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease
Effects of pulmonary hyperinflation on the kinetics of oxygen uptake  in patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Each patient of a total of 21 participants will be subjected to two tests or interventions at rest and four cardiopulmonary exercise testing. The first test, at rest (randomized by simple draw) will be on a first visit, or a test of tachypnea of 40 breaths in 30 seconds with serial measurements of inspiratory capacity after this maneuver (hyperinflation) or, on a second visit, a test of 10 minutes under continuous  positive  airway pressure (CPAP) ventilatory mode with serial measurements of inspiratory capacity after the intervention (Deflation) .In another visit, patients who experience minimal change in volume of 200 mL by hyperinflation and / or those who submit minimum of 200 mL of lung deflation will undergo exercises at constant load tests preceded by 30 seconds before the beginning of the  same positive tests already performed previously (tachypnea or CPAP) and duplicate at the same day, with a rest interval of 1 hours, having been previously submitted to a test without intervention.
 We will test 21 patients to reach a final eligible 7 patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease stage severe or very-severe and aged 40 to 75 years ; free of exacerbation for at least 2 months; on regular use of prescription drugs; should be able to perform spirometry and exercise testing; both gender; without important comorbidities like other chronic obstructive lung disease or cardiopathy; free of chronic domiciliar oxygen therapy 
Patient with  ischemic heart disease ; recent myocardial infarction;  pulmonary arterial hypertension;  uncontrolled systemic hypertension;  diabetes mellitus or  anemia ; furthermore can not participate in the study patients with severe aortic stenosis or  musculoskeletal or rheumatic diseases and  inability to use cycle ergometer for any reason
Kinetics of oxygen consumption before and after intervention like time constant ; a monoexponential kinetics will be measured by analyzing the adjustment of oxygen consumption by measuring specific mathematical parameters    such time constant, time delay and amplitude of the response; we expect to find an increase about 10% of the time constant and a reduction in amplitude of the same magnitude  after tachypnea-induced  hyperinflation and a reduction of the same magnitude for both after pre-exercise non invasive ventilation 
Exercise time after the intervention, set on a cycle ergometer at a load of 70 to 80% of the maximum load reached in the incremental test, measured in minutes; we expect to reach a increase of 10% of this time after deinflation of the lungs by non invasive ventilation and a decrease in average 10% of this time in the case of induced hyperventilation and hyperinflation
CTT116855 Twelve month study to compare three investigational medications in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who have a history of COPD exacerbation
CTT116855 A phase III, 52 week, randomized, double-blind, 3-arm parallel group study, comparing the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the fixed dose triple combination FF/UMEC/VI with the fixed dose dual combinations of FF/VI and UMEC/VI, all administered once-daily in the morning via a dry powder inhaler in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Arm 1: 4000 subjects receives fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol 100 mcg/62.5 mcg/25 mcg once daily, in the morning, during 52 weeks

Arm 2: 4000 subjects receives fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 100 mcg/25 mcg once daily, in the morning, during 52 weeks
Subjects with at least 40 years old with history of cronic obstructive pulmonary disease and also smoking history; that is currently receiving cronic treatment for cronic obstructive pulmonary disease and have history of exacerbations
Pregnancy or lactating women; subjects with asthma diagnostics or other respiratory disorders; hepatic unstable  disease or cardiopaty unstrable; others
Decrease of annual rate of on-treatment moderate and severe exacerbations comparing fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol with umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol and comparing fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol with fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 
Changes in the outcome of pulmonary function test, the register exacerbations and also in the questionnaire about respiratory disease
Impact assessment of molecular tests for drug resistant tuberculosis diagnosis in Brazil
Policy Relevant Outcomes from Validating Evidence on Impact of Line Probe Assay and MTB/RIF on Presumptive Diagnosis of DR-TB in Brazil
Three hundred and fifty one ( 351 ) patients suspected of resistant tuberculosis to at least one anti - TB drug, which reach the five ( 5 ) Health Units participants will be subjected to the following diagnostic tests : Genotype MTBDRplus -LPA , and GeneXpert, and BACTEC ™ MGIT ™ 960 . The study will be consist of three (3) groups of intervention: Intervention Group I : 117 patients will be subjected to diagnostic tests BACTEC ™ MGIT ™ 960 . Intervention group II : 117 patients will be subjected to diagnostic tests GeneXpert . Intervention group III : 117 patients will be subjected to diagnostic tests Genotype MTBDRplus -LPA . During the 6-month period all patients included suspects will be interviewed and sputum samples will be collected to measure diagnostic technique in the study. Patients diagnosed as resistant will be monitored for six months to check the time to eliminate the culture for mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Age over 18 years; individuals or their legal representatives who sign the Consent Free and Clear; TB resistant suspected cases defined by the presence of history of previous treatment for TB; patients hospitalized in referral centers for TB at least once in the past 2 years; staying in nursing homes / hostels; homeless population; drug / alcohol abusers; HIV seropositive individuals and contacts of tuberculosis resistant patients positive smear 

Pregnant; refusal to participate in any phase of the study; patients with resistant tuberculosis confirmed by culture and with appropriate treatment in progress; patients with tuberculosis results from another laboratory that will used by the physician to initiate anti tuberculosis treatment; extra-pulmonary TB suspected patients  (without sputum sample) and permanent patients in police and prisons 
Evaluate the cost effectiveness of diagnostic tests by analysis of the time interval between the collect of sputum smaear to detect TB cases and the early adoption of appropriate strategy in anti-TB treatment
To evaluate the proportion of culture conversion in the 6th. month after to collect of sputum 
Developmental assessment and stimulation of children at risk
Assessment of child development and early intervention in high-risk children and their families in Brazil
A longitudinal program of psicossocial intervention was developed with a focus on strengthening mother-child interaction, reducing parental stress and maternal depression, and encouraging childcare practices that promote the overall development of children. The sample consisted of 520 preterm and full term newborns from the Hospital Sofia Feldman (HSF) and who remained in Casa do Bebê / HSF until they reached conditions for discharge. The sample was divided into two groups (a) control with 340 infants and (b) intervention with 180 infants, among these 100 preterm infants. The infants in the control group participated in a longitudinal follow - up program, consisting of 5 appointments (2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 months of age) for basic child health care and developmental evaluation, in which the parents also answered specific questionnaires for the variables under study. The infants in the intervention group did the same follow-up program, with 5 child health care appointments, developmental evaluation and questionnaires, plus 6 intervention groups with the mothers, concomitant to the appointments, the first group being conducted before discharge from the Casa do Bebê. The complete intervention package consisted of two individual sessions of the Newborn Behavioral Observation (NBO), before leaving the Casa do Bebê and at two months corrected age, followed by six group sessions with the parents (the first at Casa do Bebê and the others at 2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 months). While at Casa do Bebê, the mothers receive a 
They will be admitted newborns included in the House of the Hospital Sofia Feldman baby during the period of conducting the survey; which remained for at least three days in the House of Baby; whose families are willing to participate in the stages of this project and signed the term of free and informed consent.
 Children whose parents did not sign the consent form and clear;  whose mothers died at birth;  whose mothers have mental disorders that compromise their understanding or following your child;  with diagnosed sensory disabilities;  with malformation of the nervous system or the locomotor system;  neurogenic diseases or chromosomal disorders diagnosed,  the presence of hypoxic-ischemic lesions (multicystic encephalomalacia or periventricular leukomalacia) diagnosed.
Child Development evaluated by the total score in the Bayley Child Development Scale 3rd Edition (Bayley-III), applied at 4, 6, 9 and 12 months of age. Bayley-III is a standardized test with a mean score of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. Score lower than 1 standard deviation below the mean is suggestive of developmental delay. The test has 3 subscales to obtain measures of language, motor and cognitive development. Controlling for the initial performance level, it is expected that at the end of the study: (a) the intervention group will present mean scores in each area significantly higher than the controls, and (b) statistical modeling should indicate a lower chance of developmental delay, in the different areas, in the intervention group.
Mother-child interaction through the analysis of video clips of the parent-child interaction during the presentation of a "new toy" as scored by the Parenting Interactions with Children -Checklist of Observations Linked to Outcomes (PICCOLO). The the effect of the intervention will be verified by comparing groups on the number of positive behaviors observed during mother-child interaction. It is expected that, at the end of the programa, mothers in the intervention group will show significantly higher number of positive interactions.
Insulin Secretion in Healthy, in Obese and in Obese Type 2 Diabetic Patients Undergoing Bariatric Surgery
Insulin Secretory Capacity in Healthy, in Obese, and in Obese Type 2 Diabetic Patients Undergoing Bariatric Surgery Through the Hyperglycemic Clamp
Controlled study: one experimental group and two control groups. Experimental group: 20 obese grade I and II patients with  type 2 diabetes who underwent biliopancreatic diversion surgery. Evaluated preoperatively, in the first month and in the twelfth month after surgery. Eutrophic control group: 20 normal weight  and normal glucose tolerant women which were not subjected to any intervention. Evaluated only once. Obese control group: 20 obese grade I and II normal glucose tolerant women which were not subjected to any intervention. Evaluated only once.
Female, older than 20 years, being in premenopausal period, type 2 diabetic patient using only oral anti-diabetic medication or no medication for diabetes, weight variation less than 5% in the last 3 months; capacity to understand the procedures of the study and voluntarily agree to participate in the study by signing the consent form.
Patients taking insulin or drugs with effects on insulin secretion; BMI greater than or equal to 18.5 kg / m²; history of liver disease such as cirrhosis or chronic active hepatitis; alteration of renal function, a recent history of cancer, use of oral corticosteroids or injected by more than 14 consecutive days in the last 3 months.
Acute improvement on beta-cell function one month after biliopancreatic diversion surgery assessed by hyperglycemic clamp test and by the oral glucose tolerance test
Improvement on beta-cell function one year after biliopancreatic diversion surgery assessed by hyperglycemic clamp test and by the oral glucose tolerance test
Effects of an intervention involving physiotherapy and physical education, performed for all ages, aimed at the physical capacity of the elderly living in the community

Effects of interdisciplinary and intergenerational intervention in the community elderly mobility
80 elderly living in the community will be recruited. All participants will be evaluated by the Participant identification form, Mini Balance Evaluation Systems Test (Mini bestest) Dynamometer Manual (Hand-Grip) Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) and Banco de Wells (sit and reach test) before and after interventions. 2 groups with 40 subjects in each group will be formed, one walk (GC) and the other of the Interdisciplinary and Intergenerational program (GII). The GC will be supervised by a physical educator and will be made only by the elderly. Will be held 10 minutes passive stretching of the trapezius, rotator cuff muscles, latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, quadriceps and femoral biceps, and triceps sural; 20 minute walk; 20 minutes of muscle strengthening without load for upper and lower limbs; 10 minutes of cooling down with passive stretching the same muscles described above.
The GII will be part of the program Gero Saúde, the Geriatrics Service of Hospital das Clínicas of the Faculty of Medicine, University of São Paulo (HCFMUSP), which offers free exercise for people of all ages aimed at healthy aging. He will have two different exercise programs, but with the same goals, the day led by physiotherapists and other day by physical education teachers. All participa
People with 60 years or more; both sexes; without health changes to indicate the practice of physical exercises
People who do not adhere to the program and present more than three fouls
The work of an interdisciplinary team with an intergenerational intervention, promote greater benefits in community elderly mobility than a conventional intervention (unidisciplinary and unigeracional). So expect to find improvement in postural control, flexibility and gait of these seniors through performance measurement in the Short Physical Performance Battery test and Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test, from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Secondary outcomes will be measurement of manual seizure of power by the dynamometer Manual, flexibility test through the Banco de Wells.
Neck rehabilitation in subjects with temporomandibular pain. A randomized controlled clinical trial
Neck rehabilitation in subjects with Temporomandibular Disorders. A randomized controlled clinical trial
Intervention group: 25 women with temporomandibular disorders, submitted to a 5-week duration therapy protocol, composed of 10 sessions. Will be applied 3 manual therapy techniques focused on cervical spine as well as a cervical segmental stabilization training with biofeedback pressure.

Control group: 25 women with temporomandibular disorders, will not receive any intervention for five weeks. However, after the second evaluation, the same treatment of the Intervention Group will be offered.
Females; 18-40 years; temporomandibular disorders diagnosis; temporomandibular joint pain or masticatory muscles pain for more than three months; presence of tender points on palpation of masticatory muscles.
Subjects in dental treatment or other treatment of orofacial; rheumatic disease; tooth loss; fibromyalgia; systemic neurological sistemic diseases.
Pressure pain threshold in kg/m2, measured by a digital algometer after five weeks of intervention or control, considering a variation of at least 0.45 Kg/m2 on pre/posr evaluations
TMJ pain in millimeters, measured with a visual analog scale after 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks of intervention or control. Clinical alterations, ranging -7 to 7, on the Global Rating of Change Scale, after 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks of intervention or control.
Study of the visual field of patients treated with the intraocular medication ranibizumab on the disease retinal vein occlusion of the retina.
Perimetrical Findings in the double frequency perimetry (PDT) in the treatment of branch vein with Lucentis (Ranibizumab)
Treatment group: 19 subjects with acute Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO) and edeme that initiated between 0 and 6 months. The medication Ranibizumabe will be injected monthly within the vitreous at a dose of 0.5mg/0.05ml for 3 consecutive months. The procedures or the intervention are as described beow:

1 - Antisepsis: topical eye drops 5% Iodine-povidone 1 drop 3 times and antibiotic eye drops 1 drop 4 times in the intravitreal injection eye 30 minutes before injection.
Patients with Branck Retinal Venous occlusion (BRVO) with acute edema that started between 0 and 6 months; visual acuity between 20/40 and  20/400; Central foveal thickness greater than 250 microns , measured in optical coherence tomography (OCT); Age of 18 years or more; Subjects who agreed and signed an informed consent form.
Concomitant Conditions in the study eye that can, in the opinion of investigator, hinder the improvement of visual acuity with the proposed treatment; Opacities of ocular environment; Active intraocular inflammation (inflammation trace degree or above) in any eye; Any active infection (eg conjunctivitis, keratitis, scleritis, uveitis, endophthalmitis.) In either eye; Previous history of uveitis in either eye; Structural damage in the macula in one of the macula center diameter disc in the study eye, which can prevent improvement in visual acuity after resolution of macular edema, including atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium, subretinal fibrosis, scar (s) by laser or hard exudates arranged in the plate; Eye diseases in the study eye that can confuse the interpretation of the study results, compromising visual acuity or require medical or surgical intervention during the period of 6 months of the study, including retinal detachment, macular hole or choroidal neovascularization of any cause (eg macular disease related to age, ocular histoplasmosis or pathological myopia.); Glaucoma not controlled in the study eye (according to the investigator
absolute deviation (MD), measured by dual frequency perimetry (FDT)
Central retinal thickness as measured by OCT examination; Numbers of statistically significant areas P <5% in the total difference (total deviation) measured by FDT examination; Incidence of adverse events.
Evaluation of serum Vitamin D levels in patients with Polycystic kidney disease.
Serum vitamin D levels in Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease (ADPKD)patients. 
A seventy-four (74) adult patients evaluated at the Nephrology Division from Universidade Federal de São Paulo, who had received a diagnosis of ADPKD were selected to participate in the present study. 

An initial evaluation consisted in anthropometric measurements (weight, height, triceps, biceps, suprailiac and subescapular cutaneous fold to calculate the percentage of body fat)and a 24-hour dietary record to evaluate food consumption. After this initial clinical evaluation, enrolled patients were scheduled for one blood sample drawn following an overnight fast and a 24-h urine collection, obtained during the preceding day. Ambulatory monitoring blood pressure exam (ABMP) and imaging magnetic resonance to determine kidney volume were scheduled in a period of 30 days.
Volunteeers with Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease; both genders; aged between 18 to 75 years; normo or hypertensives; vitamin D deficient [25(OH) 
Age 
Fourty-six patients (46) presented hypovitaminosis D [25(OH)< 30 ng/ml], being randomized in vitamin D3 or placebo group.   Vitamin D3 supplementation restored serum levels of vitamin D to above 30 ng/ml in 16 patients (76%).   There was found no differences in blood pressure parameters (systolic and diastolic), inflammatory markers and in the expression of vitamin D receptor (VDR) and the ezymes CYP27B1 and CYP24A1 after vitamin D3 supplementation.   
Serum vitamina D levels [25(OH)D] and VDR expression were not negatively correlated with blood pressure parameters.   Serum vitamin D levels [25(OH)D] and VDR expression were negatively correlated with renal volume.   Vitamin D receptor (VDR) was negatively correlated with inflammatory markers (IL-6, IL-10, C reactive protein and nuclear factor kappa B. 
Efeito de bebida rica em fibra na redução da glicemia de diabéticos
Effect of juice diet enriched with soluble fiber in reducing blood glucose of patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 
The experimental group will receive sachets for the preparation of a portion of  drink per day (each serving equals 1 cup of  drink 200 ml prepared), total consumption of 9 g of soluble fiber coming from the consumption of one serving of drink per day. The control group will receive sachets for the preparation of a portion of drink per day (each serving equals 1 cup of  drink 200 ml prepared), but this addition of drink contains no fiber. Both groups should consume one sachet per day, 30 minutes before lunch for 3 months.
Inclusion criteria are: to be with diabetes mellitus type 2, has a body mass index above 25 kg/m2 and waist circumference increased, being sedentary, belong to the age group between 30 and 59 years and sign the Informed Consent Informed Consent (IC).
The exclusion criteria are: patients who are taking insulin, with chronic complications of diabetes, gastrointestinal disorders and intolerance fibers, pregnant and lactating women, and those who do not complete the follow-up during the study period.
Reduction of  glycated hemoglobin, HOMA B and HOMA IR, over the 3 months of intervention compared to baseline. Glycated hemoglobin should be between 7.0 and 6.5%. HOMA B should be between 167 and 175% and the HOMA IR index lower than 3.4.
Reduced levels of cholesterol and triglycerides, over the 3 months of intervention compared to baseline. Cholesterol and triglycerides should be below 200 and 150 mg respectively.
Exercise in the Prevention of Falls in Elderly Residents in Institutions for the Aged
Exercise in the Prevention of Falls in Elderly Institutionalized
Intervention group: 15 institutionalized elderly participated in an exercise program 3 times a week for three months with approximately 45 minutes each session
Control Group: 15 institutionalized elderly performed only assessments and reassessments at the end of three months
People aged 60 and over; both sexes; seniors who possessed a position to understand simple verbal order; elderly and / or guardians who agreed to participate
Seniors unable to take exercise; elderly without cognitive ability, that prevented the understanding and implementation of the proposed exercises; elderly victims of hospitalization during the period designated for intervention
The results showed a significant improvement in the balance of elderly submitted to intervention, and consequently reducing the risk of falls
The results showed a significant improvement in anthropometric measurements, muscle strength in the lower limbs and muscle strength in the upper limbs of elderly submitted to intervention
Effects of exercises with action observation and aquatic physical therapy in arm recovery after stroke
Comparative study between action observation training and hydrotherapy in upper limb recovery after stroke: randomized clinical trial
Experimental group 1 (n=20): The first group will receive the intervention: action observation training. 20 participants will perform funcional movements while watching a video that demonstrates functional movements and perform the movements shown in the video, if necessary with assistance. Exercises  include: active movements of the upper limbs , functional movements such as combing hair, handle cutlery for eating, brushing teeth, hold and drop different objects, change posture and walking. Experimental group 2 (n=20): The second group will receive the intervention: hydrotherapy. Participants will hold exercises in the heated pool, active movements of the upper limbs, strengthening exercises and functional movements that simulate everyday activities and walking. Control group (n=20) The control group will carry out conventional physiotherapy with exercises in range of motion of the upper and lower limbs, strengthening exercises of the upper limbs, trunk and lower limbs, stretching and balance exercises and walking. All the groups will receive intervention 2 times a week, lasting 40 minutes. The duration of treatment is 6 months.
Sample consists of 60 adult participants with a minimum age of 40 years and maximum age of80 years. Inclusion criteria: diagnosis of a single episode of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke occurred between 3 months and 2 years in good health condition; with brachial- facial hemiparesis; with mild to moderate and independent walking even under use of any assistive device for ambulation
Exclusion criteria: more than one episode of stroke; with evidence of lesions in the cerebellum; brainstem or bilateral hemispheric injury. Aphasia; clinically unstable and comorbidities that interfere with motor function and severe spasticity.
Improvement of upper limb functionality and performance of activities of daily living, verified by Fulg -Meyer scale, from the increase of finding the final score after six months. The improvement rate will be determined by  Analysis of Variances, with p<0.05 and statistical power of 80%.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Ultrasound-guided ophthalmic anesthesia
Ultrasound-guided periconal blockade: randomized clinical trial 
Experimental group (Group USG, n=69): patients undergoing cataract surgery will receive periconal anesthesia guided by ultrasound. Control group (Group C, n=60): patients undergoing cataract surgery will receive conventional blind periconal anesthesia followed by the use of ultrasound to confirm the needle position in orbit cavity.
Cataract patients, both genders, aged between 18 and 95 years old, healthy or with mild or moderate systemic disease without functional limitation according to the American Society of Anesthesiologists I-II, respectively.
 Patients with high myopia (axial length
 The  expected primary endpoint for the study was to increase the safety and efficacy of periconal anesthesia with ultrasound guidance, as well as the improvement of needle placement accuracy when compared to the conventional blind technique, on the occurrence of complications. The real placement of the needle in orbit cavity was evaluated by measuring the length of the needle, the distance between the needle tip and the optic nerve as well as the insertion depth of the needle in relation to the iris plane, in ultrasound images.
Real-time visualization of the needle reduced the chance of having unintentional intraconal block and the placement of the needle inadvertently close to the optic nerve. Thus, Real-Time Ultrasound-Guided Periconal Blockade proved to be safe and equally effective as the Conventional Periconal Blockade Technique, in patients with normal eyes.
The effect of atorvastatin plus aspirin compared with a non-therapeutic substance on the function of the blood vessels and inflammation in HIV patients under treatment presenting a low risk of cardiovascular disease.
The effect of atorvastatin plus aspirin versus placebo on the  endothelial function and inflammation in HIV patients under antiretroviral treatment presenting a low risk of cardiovascular risk. A randomized and double blind clinical trial.
The experimental arm A : 50 subjects take orally one tablet of Atorvastatin 10-20 mg + 1 tablet of oral acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg 1 time daily for 24 weeks.

Trial arm B: 50 subjects take orally 1 tablet of placebo atorvastatin and 1 tablet oral Placebo acetyl salicylic acid 1 once daily for 24 weeks.
HIV patients on antiretroviral use ; both genders , aged between 18 and 60; lower cardiovascular risk than 10 % probability of occurrence of cardiovascular events in 10 years , as measured by the Framingham risk score .
history of hospitalization and  opportunistic infections in the past 90 days; history of chronic liver dysfunction, thyroid dysfunction, autoimmune disease, history of hepatitis B or C; pregnancy or breastfeeding; previous use of statins, fibrates, ezetemibe, omega 3 , aspirin, NSAIDs, oral anticoagulants, interferon, interleukins, growth hormones, immunoglobulins, glucocorticoids or other immunosuppressants; alcohol abuse; previous intolerance to statins and  aspirin; hemophilia; AST and ALT greater or equal 120 IU / L; CPK grater ou equal 167 U / L; muscle trauma or recent surgery performed until four months earlier; history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and renal dysfunction.
 Difference by 10% or more in diameter of the brachial artery at rest and after stimulation with redness , measured at time zero , after 3 months and 6 months in Doppler ultrasound device .
 • Reduced levels of inflammatory mediators by 25% (IFN-gama, IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, MCP-1, NT-PROBNP, TNF-alfa, VEGF e PCR) in peripheral blood in week 0, 12 and 24  • Occurrence of adverse events, including epigastric pain and / or muscle pain, fatigue, transaminase elevation and Creatine phosphokinase in monthly medical visits. • 25% reduction in the levels of triglycerides , total cholesterol and fractions at weeks 0 , 12 and 24 observed in biochemical tests of peripheral blood.
Influence of an exercise program on cardiac function of patients with Stroke.
Influence of an exercise program on cardiac remodeling and functional capacity of patients with Stroke.
Intervention Group (IG n = 20); undergo a cardiovascular rehabilitation program consisting of heating, cooling aerobic exercise and muscle, for 16 weeks, three times a week, for 45 minutes. 

Control Group (CG n = 20) underwent conventional physiotherapy exercises twice a week for 45 minutes for 16 weeks at the Hospital das Clínicas of Botucatu.
Will be included participants older than 18 years; both sexes; ischemic stroke or TIA; modified Rankin scale (mRS less or equal 2); chronic phase (6 to 12 months of the onset of symptoms); clinically stable for the study after medical approval.
Patients with hemorrhagic stroke; mRS more than 2; uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure more than 150 mm Hg); history of angina in the last three months; uncontrolled epilepsy; heart rate of persistent atrial fibrillation or permanent and/or rate of artificial pacemaker; presence of mitral and/or aortic valvular stenosis; presence of heart failure grade IV - stage D; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); life expectancy less than 6 months.
Improvement equal to or above 300 meters in the walk test of six minutes in the next week after 16 weeks of intervention.
a) Neurological evaluation: improvement in 15% of NIHSS, mRS and Barthel scales after the intervention;  b) Nutritional assessment: improvement in range of 5 to 10% of total body fat rate after the intervention;  c) Cardiologic evaluation: improvement in left ventricular mass of 8 to 12 g/m2.7 the echocardiogram after the intervention, and decrease in 7 mmHg of the systolic blood pressure and 5 mmHg of diastolic blood pressure by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) after the intervention;  d) Laboratory tests: improvement of the inflammatory response in the range of 30 to 50% after the intervention;  e) Quality of life: improvement in 15% of the perception on the scale of quality of life after the intervention.    
Effects of physical exercises in lung cancer individuals
Impact of pulmonary rehabilitation in the incidence of postoperative respiratory complications in pulmonary resection for lung cancer

Pulmonary resection
Pulmonary Rehabilitation
Staging of lung cancer among IA, IB, IIA, IIB and IIIA.
Medical Research Council (MRC)dyspnea scale at moderate to severe.
Severe cardiovascular or other diseases that contraindicate exercise;
Diseases with orthopedic impairments that preclude the exercise.
The primary endpoint will be evaluated by the post operative pulmonary complications (mechanical ventilation duration, days of intensive care unit, bronchospasm, atelectasis, bronchopleural fistula, empyema, pneumonia, tracheobronchitis, duration of chest tube, acute respiratory failure. 
The secondary endpoint will be evaluated by pressure manovacuometry test (respiratory muscle strength) , health related quality of life test (SF-36 questionnaire), six minutes walk distance test (physical capacity) and hospital anxiety and depression test (HADS - Hospital anxiety and depression scale).  
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and diathermy microwave effects in the menstrual cramps
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and diathermy microwave effects in the primary dysmenorrhea: placebo-controlled clinical trail
Diathermy microwave and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation application in the infra-abdominal region. Eighty-eight women will selected and divided into 4 groups: GI (n:22) = diathermy microwave connected (20 minutes) and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation connected (30 minutes); GII (n:22) = diathermy microwave off (20 minutes) and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation sham (30 minutes);  GIII (n:22) = diathermy microwave sham (20 minutes)and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation connected (30 minutes); GIV (n:22) = diathermy microwave sham (20 minutes)and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation sham (30 minutes). Everybody will received only one intervention. 
Health women; 18 to 44 years; no previous pregnancy; no physical activity; body mass index 
hormonal contraceptives use; anti-inflammatory and/or analgesics for the treatment of menstrual cramps or any dysfunction;
diabetes; rheumatic arthritis; gynecological diseases; presence of malignant or benign tumor; metal implants; cardiac diseases; pacemaker use; decreased or absence of sensitivity in the abdominal region; and epilepsy.
Mean difference of 2 points in Visual Numerical Scale of pain between the actives's group.
Visual Numeric Scale pain on the day following treatment.
Homeopathy versus Sertraline for depression
Homeopathy versus Sertraline
Experimental group: 110 patients with a depressive episode diagnosis will receive an individualized homeopathic medicine in fifty-millesimal potencies (LM or Q potencies)
Subjects should meet the criteria for a depressive episode (single or recurrent) following a Structured Clinical Interview,SCID; capacity and willingness to give informed consent and to comply with study procedures will also be required.

Dysthymia; psychotic, chronic or double depression; intolerance to sertraline or a negative previous experience with the drug; bipolar disorder; schizophrenia or other psychotic disorders;  substance dependence (except tobacco); bulimia or anorexia, clinical significant chronic disease that could hinder study visits or depression evaluation;  suicide attempt up to 12 months before screening; treatment with antidepressants or mood stabilizers 4 weeks prior to the screening; homeopathic treatment 8 weeks prior to study entry; psychotherapy, meditation or acupuncture during the study; participation in a previous clinical trial 3 months prior to screening; concomitant pregnancy or breastfeeding; epilepsy;  concomitant use of anticoagulants; patients who are assumed to have a linguistic, intellectual or any other reason for not understanding the meaning of the clinical trial and for not complying with the necessary study procedures.
Mean score on the Montgomery & Åsberg – (MADRS) after twelve weeks
MADRS mean score (with the exception of the primary endpoint); response and remission rates, quality of life (SF-12), at weeks 2, 4, 8, 16, 20, and 24; adverse events and dropouts during the whole trial. 
Effect of Education on Learning and the Diabetes Control in Patients Alloy Hypertension UFG
Effect of Educational Intervention on the Knowledge and Control of Diabetes in Patients of the Hypertension League of UFG
Were randomized two groups of hypertensive patients with diabetes: intervention grup(GI=28) and control grup (CG=34). The intervention consisted of group educational activities, developed with the GI, within six months. The IG was divided into two subgroups, a total of 12 biweekly sessions for each subgroup. As a teaching strategy was used to problem-Methodology of Paulo Freire (BRANDÃO, 1981; FREIRE, 1977), divided into two phases: A survey of the universe theme: Themes significant for GI have been raised by the dynamic discussion circles using a script with three debating issues. The content of the discussions were recorded, recorded, and the central issues highlighted (generating themes). 2 Educational activities: a plan was drawn up for each subject ensino para generators described in the previous phase, worked in educational meetings: anatomy and physiology of diabetes, self-care, glycemic control, diet plan, physical activity, medications, chronic complications of diabetes, obesity, evaluation of care and quality of life. Each teaching plan stemmed from the presentation of a situation of the reality of the participants, through resources that could motivate discussions as pictures, written statements by participants, posters, toy ride. Both gupos (GC and GI) stayed with the routine care in the service during the following six months of the study. The GC has not participated in any educational activities. Both groups were compared in terms of knowledge about the disease at the beginning and end of the study and also compared with the values of biochemical and clinical disease control, such as blood pressure, weight, body mass index, waist circumference, blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin in the start, and after three follow-up after six months.
Being patient with non-insulin dependent diabetes. Not be participating in another research project. Having physical and economic conditions for the displacement. Agree to participate and signing the consent form.
Being insulin dependent. Having obesity grade III. Miss the scheduled service. Does not agree to participate in research.
To assess knowledge about diabetes, we used the questionnaire of knowledge about diabetes, the study validated instrument developed by Otero, 2005, and tested in four diabetic patients of the service, allowing adaptations that facilitated the understanding of questions, best record and data reliability. We evaluated the knowledge of the disease considering the eight parts of the questionnaire. 
The control parameters in both control and intervention groups: weight, body mass index (BMI), waist circumference (WC), blood pressure (BP), blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin at baseline, after three months of intervention and at the end of six months (end of study). As control parameters of the variables were used: BMI: < 25Kg/m2. CC: Men < 102cm and Women < 88cm. BP <130/80 mmHg. Glycemia < 140mg/dl. Glycated hemoglobin: < 6.5%.
Study with dabrafenibe, a BRAF inhibitor, in combination with trametinibe, a MEK inhibitor, compared to two placebos (inactive medicaments) in the treatment of positive melanoma V600E/K BRAF mutation after surgery
BRF115532 - A study Phase III, randomized, double-blind, dabrafenibe (GSK2118436) in combination with trametinibe (GSK1120212) versus two placebo in the adjuvant treatment of high-risk melanoma with BRAF mutation positive V600, after surgical resection
Clinical trial phase III for the treatment of malignant melanoma of skin. The study will randomize approximately 852 subjects. Brazil will randomize 20 subjects.
Experimental arm: 426 subjects will receive 2 mg of trametinib once daily and 150mg of dabrafenib twice daily orally on combination therapy for 12 months.
Completely resected histologically confirmed high-risk, stage IIIa, LN metastasis more than 1 mm, IIIb or IIIc cutaneous melanoma determined to be V600E/K mutation positive by a central laboratory.  Patients presenting with initial resectable lymph node recurrence after a diagnosis of Stage I or II melanoma are eligible;
Surgically rendered free of disease no more than 12 weeks before randomization;
Known mucosal or ocular melanoma or the presence of unresectable in-transit metastases;
Evidence of distant metastatic disease;
The primary efficacy endpoint of this study is relapse free survival (RFS) which is defined as the time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Recurrence of or death from the same cancer and all deaths from other causes are events. Treatment emergent malignancies (excluding second melanomas) will not be considered as events, and loss to follow-up is censored. 
The secondary objectives of the study include characterizing the safety of dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy. As a consequence, clinical assessments including vital signs and physical examinations, 12-lead ECG, ECHO, eye exams, chemistry and hematology laboratory values, and AEs will be monitored and evaluated. 
Gingival assessment around the teeth in patients using partial dentures
Periodontal evaluation in removable partial dentures wearers
80 patients edentulous upper and partially edentulous in the lower arch, denture wearers upper and lower partial denture, of both sexes, after the diagnosis of periodontal disease patients will be treated using a basic therapeutic approach, included oral hygiene instructions, motivation, scaling and root planing as well as prophylaxis. One month later, patients will be invited for further oral hygiene instructions and after a 6-month periodontal treatment, they will be re-examinated and clinical parameters registered.

There is no control group. All patients diagnosed with periodontal disease will be treated.
Minimum age 18 years. Both genders. Have been met and rehabilitated with maxillary denture and lower removable partial Kennedy Class I. Treated at the service of the Faculty of Dentistry of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte.
Over 80 years. Weakened state of health.
Increased clinical insertion after 6-month evaluation verified by periodontal probing after observation of decrease in periodontal parameters of probing depth and gingival retraction after intervention, at the end of treatment.
Improving clinical periodontal parameters verified by clinical periodontal evaluation from the constação improvement in periodontal status of abutment teeth.  Decrease in the visible plaque index verified by clinical assessment based on the statement of the decreased amount of biofilm on the teeth retainers of the prosthesis in relation the amount observed at the first assessment.  Decreased bleeding on probing checked with probing examination from the evidence of the absence of bleeding after probing.
Intravenous infusion of a single solution with with midazolam and fentanyl versus intravenous infusion of midazolam and fentanyl in separate solutions
Intravenous infusion of  a combined solution of midazolam and fentanyl solution vs separated midazolam and fentanyl 
Experimental group: 20 patients will receive a continuous intravenous infusion of midazolam and fentanyl combined in a single solution. Each infusion rate of 1 ml/h of solution will provide a dose of 4 mcg/kg/min of midazolam (maximum dose: 10 mcg/k/min) and 2 mcg/kg/hr of fentanyl (maximum dose: 10 mcg/kg/hour). The infusion rate will be increased or decreased in order to maintain an appropriate sedation score  (COMFORT between 11 and 22). The solution infusion period will occur until the time of extubation. Control group: 20 patients will receive intravenous infusions of midazolam and fentanyl through two distinct access, each containing midazolam or fentanyl prepared separately. Patients will receive midazolam 4 mcg/kg/ min (maximum: 10 mcg/kg/min) and fentanyl at dose of 2 mcg/kg/h (maximum: 10 mcg/kg/hour) given intravenously. The infusion rate will be increased or decreased in 0.5 mL/h, alternately, in order to maintain an appropriate sedation score (COMFORT: 11-22:. The infusion of both midazolam and fentanyl will occur until extubation.
A total of 40 consecutive patients will be included; aged between 1 month and 16 years and requiring mechanical ventilation; with an expected mechanical ventilation duration of at least 48 h and requiring sedative/analgesic drugs infusion.
Patients under 1 month old; patients over 16 years old; presenting severe neurological injury or central nervous system impairment that could affect the assessment of the sedation level. Also; patients will be excluded if they receive any neuromuscular blocking agent or another sedative drug (e.g.; ketamine; dexmedetomedine; clonidine; thiopental; thionembutal; chloral hydrate) during the study period. 
The primary outcome will be the mean difference of the amount (milligrams) of the total cumulated dose of both fentanyl and midazolam administered during the study. The promary outcome will be assessed by calculating the total amount of midazolam and fentanyl (mean) given to each patient at the end of treatment. The increased total dose of both midazolam and fentanyl (mg) over a 6 months period will be assessed through the mean (and standard deviation) of the amount of administered dose (milligrams) from the demonstration of a difference of 100% between the total doses of both midazolam and fentanyl administered for each study group
Mean difference (days) in the mechanical ventilation time between the study groups of patients receiving midazolam and fentanyl combined or separately over a 6 months period will be calculated through the sum of the total time on mechanical ventilation for each patient and then expressed as mean. 
Passion fruit effect on the central nervous system
Passion Fruit effect on the central nervous system
Single dose trial: 30 healthy subjects ingesting 500 mg dry extract capsule whole plant Passiflora incarnata L.
Single dose control: 30 healthy individuals ingest 500 mg of starch capsule (placebo)
90 Individuals of both sexes; aged between 18 and 59 years; healthy self-appointed; residence in João Pessoa-PB, signing the free and informed consent term.
Subjects with any somatic or mental disorder diagnosed; pregnant women; individuals with chronic use of drugs, including drugs / substances that interfere in the degree of anxiety.
Maintenance of Anxiety Inventory scores evaluated by State-trait anxiety, with no variation of at least 5% in the measurements between the groups. 
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Evaluation of walking in patients with Parkinson
Three-dimensional analysis of gait in patients with Parkinson
For the evaluations, individuals will be on previously booked a session for three-dimensional gait analysis , which will be held at the UNINOVE Gait Laboratory. On the evaluations , subjects will be instructed not to discontinue their medications, as well as attending to lightweight costumes ( for bottom necessarily shorts ) and shoes usual . After the initial assessments ( Assessment of gait 1 ) the 30 individuals will be scheduled for interventions , which will be structured as follows : 8 week program cinesioterapia and gait training on a treadmill without body weight support ( Intervention A) , session followed by reassessment of gait ( Rating 2 ) , 4 week period without intervention ( wash-out ) and session revaluation gait Assessment ( 3 ) . After, make 8 weeks program of cinesioterapia and gait training on a treadmill with body weight support ( Intervention B ) , which will be followed by session reassessment of gait ( Rating 4 ) . Interventions consist of two parts : the regular program of cinesioterapia and treadmill training with and without partial body weight support . The intervention A will consist of regular cinesioterapia and gait training on a treadmill without body weight support and intervention B present the same program of cinesioterapia regular and gait training on a treadmill with body weight support . In cinesioterapia regular program will individually and applied by trained physiotherapists . Will be used for the session: elastic bands blue, green and gray , medium size plastic ball , Swiss ball ( size 65 to 85 cm ) ; stretcher and ladder for support, foam for balance training ; ramp ; chair. The frequency will be about two times per week, for at least one day interval and a minimum duration of 60 minutes. The session will be divided into four parts: PART 1 - will last for 10 minutes and focus on flexibility by performing two sets of 20 seconds of stretching to trunk, upper and lower limbs . Will be guided four stretching exercises , recommended by the Canadian Parkinson Society. The stretches are described below : 1 . Trunk rotation : patient position on the edge of the chair and guide you to hold a trunk rotation to the right side , so that your right shoulder track the movement and the right hand rest on the left hip and the left hand on the right thigh . Repeat on opposite side . During the financial guide the patient to maintain the alignment of the body , emphasizing the verbal command : 
Indication of the implant deep brain stimulation; Over 18 years of age, clinical diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson
Inability to consent to participate in the study: With uncontrolled infection or other medical conditions pre-existing non-controlled (eg decompensated diabetes, hypertension, pneumonia or symptomatic heart disease), history of primary or secondary myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure, cardiac arrhythmia, or bundle branch block refractory to treatment, concomitant treatment with other experimental drugs, pregnant or lactating; Conditions psychological, familial, sociological or geographical conditions that preclude medical monitoring post-operative history of orthopedic surgery of lower limbs.
Increased functional performance of patients with IPD after the gain obtained by deep brain electrical stimulation, assessed by linear and angular movement of the lower limb joints by means of SMART Software System Analyser. The variables of the linear kinematic (spatiotemporal) are: 1. Velocity (cm / sec). 2. Cadence (steps / minute). 3. Stride length (cm). 4. Step width (cm). 5. Path length (cm). 7. Response to load (% of cycle). 9. Single support time (% cycle). 11. Pre-balance (% of cycle). 13. Double-support time (% cycle). 15. Time Balance (% duty cycle). The angular kinematic variables are: 1. Angular position at initial contact (degrees). 2. Peak in the angular position of the support (degrees). 3. Maximum angular position of the balance (degrees). 4. Time of the maximum value of the balance (% duty cycle). 5. Time minimum value of the balance (% duty cycle) 6. Angular position of the swing (degrees). The kinetic analysis of gait measurement of ground reaction forces (GRF) will be performed with 2 AMTI force platforms, model OR6-6-2000 placed in the center lane of travel. It is expected that the ring foot to be tested through the platform while the other remains outside the card during the past, but it is important that the individual makes as a natural event.
Quality of life improvement, measured by quantitative parameters as clinical tests: Time Up and Go Test(TUG) - stand up and walk. The TUG is utilized to determine functional mobility. Individual is oriented to sit in a arm chair and after a verbal cue he has to stand up, walk 3 meters, turn around, walk again and sit down in the chair. It has to be a comfortable and AN usual walking. It's expected less than 13.5 seconds to complete task which indicate low fall risk. Berg Scale is used to evaluate balance and fall risk in elderly people. The scale is composed by 14 itens,  ranging between 0 to 4 points, completing 56 points. It's expected scores up to 50 points which its indicate no fall risk.    Even if the patients presents good scores in TUG and BERG Scales is expected an improvement of them after a rehabilitation training. 
Effects of two physical exercise programs on the behavior of physical function and heart and analysis of inflammatory markers and respiratory gases in healthy subjects
Effects of two physical exercise programs on issues related to the physical, cardiovascular, biological and metabolic functions in healthy subjects


The study will consist of three groups of 15 subjects each randomized (G1 = 15), (G2 = 15) and (G3 = 15). A group will control (G1) and the other two (G2 and G3) will be submitted to the periodized training programs for 12 weeks with 3 sessions per week, totaling 30 sessions of training with recuperative intervals from 24 to 72 hours between sessions. Will be performed for each exercise test 1 Repetition Maximum (1RM) and familiarization with the equipments and exercises before the training.
The groups will be trained and appointed in accordance with the type of training program. The (G2 = 15) held an exercise program based on models with complex systems of levers and (G3 = 15) will hold a program from conventional models, both with two sets of each exercise, one being distributed for each session weeks of training.
Female subjects; apparently healthy; classified as inactive by the Baecke questionnaire for assessing habitual physical activity; age between 18 and 30 years.
Being a smoker; making consumption of alcohol, 
drugs or medication; do not use contraceptives; have some disease; 
At the end of the study found an increase of isotonic muscle strength verified by 1RM test for all exercises performed, where the gain variation percentage showed minimum values of 22% and a maximum of 82%.
"Secondary outcomes aren´t be expected"
Rehabilitation of the Mastication in Patients with Different Types of Dental Prostheses
Rehabilitation of the Masticatory Function in Patients with Different Types of Dental Prostheses
This is a controlled clinical trial (non-blinded and non-randomized)that evaluates the mastication of 12 volunteers with age ranging from 40 to 80 years, without gender distinction. The masticatory function is compared in the same volunteer using maxillary complete denture occluding with 3 different mandibular prosthesis: (1)conventional removable partial denture, (2) removable partial denture with posterior implant retainer, (3)implant fixed partial denture. The masticatory function is evaluated after 2 months use of each one of the mandibular prosthesis and the variables analyzed were: masticatory performance, maximum bite force, swallowing threshold, masticatory cycle pattern, masticatory ability, nutritional state, quality of life and patient satisfaction.Masticatory performance was evaluated by the chewing of chewabel test material samples and analysis by sieving method. The maximum bite force was bilaterally evaluated with pressure sensors in the molar region. Jaw movement pattern was measured by kinesiography and threshold swallowing were analyzed by counting of the masticatory cycles number until the swallow. Masticatory ability, nutritional status, quality of life and patient satisfaction with treatment are subjective variables evaluated with questionnaires.
The volunteers have to present good general health, without uncontrolled systemic diseases that prevent the surgical procedure of implants installation. Volunteers should have age between 40-80 years and present partially edentulism in the lower arch (Kennedy Class I) having only the canines and incisors (from 33 to 43) and total edentulism in the upper arch. The mandible alveolar ridge must have thickness bone volume that supports the installation of the implants (condition evaluated after X-ray and CT scan).
Presence of parafunctional habits, smokers, alcoholics, patients with xerostomia, patients with history of symptoms of temporomandibular joints and/or muscles of mastication pain, presence of uncontrolled systemic diseases, severe periodontal disease and/or tooth mobility.
In respect of the implant based prosthesis, it is expect to find out increasing maximum bite force, reducing the size of chewed food particle, fewer masticatory cycles, and improvements on patient satisfaction,  dietary intake, and quality of life of the volunteers comparing to the use of conventional removable partial dentures. These variables is going to be evaluated after two months use of each one of the mandible prosthesis respectively by the bilateral pressure sensors installed in the molar region, by the chewing of chewable test material samples, by the counting of the chewing cycles before swallowing, and by the subjective questionnaires appliance. 
Fixed implant-retained prosthesis promote higher stability during chewing and higher comfort to the patient during their use. Thus, it is expect that the best results for all the chewing variables could be found after the use of this prosthesis in relation to the other evaluated prosthesis.
The use of massage therapy as specific points for the feet of diabetic patients
The use of reflexology feet as treatment for patients with diabetes mellitus
It is a randomized, stratified by age, time since diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and age. The participants were divided into two arms: treated with 26 patients and controls with 27.
The control group (27 patients) received self-care guidelines with their feet.
With diabetes mellitus type II diagnosed for at least five years; Registered in HIPERDIA; Age above eighteen years; participate voluntarily in the study after signing the consent form.
Foot ulcers, amputations of the lower limbs, diagnosed hypertension, thrombosis, deficits in cognitive ability, previous treatment with reflexology, give up voluntarily participate in the research at any time of the study.
Patients will be evaluated at three time points before the intervention, after six sessions of reflexology and after twelve sessions. The improvement is evaluated by measuring the blood glucose by a portable glucometer, check the temperature of the tissue through medical thermography, plantar pressure assessment by baropodômetro and score commitment toes by applying the rating scale of the feet of patients with diabetes mellitus.
Patients will be evaluated at three time points before the intervention, after six sessions of reflexology and after twelve sessions. The improvement is evaluated by measuring the blood glucose by a portable glucometer, check the temperature of the tissue through medical thermography, plantar pressure assessment by baropodômetro and score commitment toes by applying the rating scale of the feet of patients with diabetes mellitus.
The n-3 fatty acid supplementation in breast tumor patients
Effect of supplementation with n-3 fatty acid on nutritional status, quality of life, immune response and the enzyme fatty acid synthase activity in patients with breast tumors in chemotherapy treatment
Thirty-eight patients in the experimental group will receive 2 g per day of fish oil concentrate (MaxOmega®). Equal number of patients will be assigned to the control group and will receive 2g per day of mineral oil. All patients will receive supplementation for 4 weeks.
Treatment naïve breast cancer patients with 18 to 70 years of age, with mammographic image classification of BIRADS 4C or above and malignancy confirmed by biopsy results.
Metastasis or reincidiva, pacemaker user, hematologic disease or other blood disorders that affect the laboratory results, inability to communicate verbally and presence of edema.
The primary endpoint of the study is the nutritional status of patients. We expect to observe maintenance or improvement in the nutritional status in the experimental group, verified by measuring the body mass índex (BMI), evidenced by the difference of at least 10% in the mean delta BMI between the intervention group and the control.
Secondary outcomes are: 1. Body composition. It is expected that in the experimental group patients maintain or increase lean body mass, assessed by bioelectrical impedance analysis (RJL system), evidenced by the difference of at least 10% in lean body mass (kg) deltas between the intervention group and the control.  2. Immunological and inflammatory biomarkers. It is expected that in the experimental group patients increase CD4+/ CD8+ ratio (assessed by flow cytometry) and reduce serum levels of IL-6  IL-1? and tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) (measured by the  immuno enzyme assay ELISA), based on the difference of at least 10% in the deltas of these variables between the intervention group and the control.  3.Enzyme fatty acid synthase. Reduction in the serum level of the enzyme fatty acid synthase (FASN) is expected, evaluated by ELISA immunoassay method,  evidenced by the decrease of at least 10% in the delta between the treatment group and control.
Speech changes produced by upper orthodontic retainers
Speech changes produced by upper orthodontic retainers: Prospective Randomized Clinical Trial
This study will have a crossover design. Control group: Group I - 20 adult volunteers will use the upper conventional wrap-around orthodontic retainer during 21 days; Experimental Groups: Group II - the same 20 adult volunteers will use the upper horseshoe-shaped wrap-around orthodontic retainer during 21 days; Group III - the same 20 adult volunteers will use the upper wrap-around with an anterior hole orthodontic retainer during 21 days; Group IV - the same 20 adult volunteers will use the upper thermoplastic clear retainer during 21 days. After use each appliance for 21 days, volunteer will remain seven days without using any device, until start the next retainer. Changes caused by each appliance and comparisons of these changes between the different retainers will be made with the acoustic analysis of speech formants in Praat 5404 computerized program, and the auditory perceptual analysis of speech carried out by two speech therapists, in speech excerpts recorded in three times: immediately before and after each retainers installation and after 21 days of use thereof. To investigate the perception of volunteers about the appliances, a visual analog scale of 100 mm will be applied to each feature assessed after each retainer be used.
Brazilians who speak the native Portuguese; acceptable sagittal occlusal relationship, with molars class I or variations of up to ¼ of II or III class.

Presence of cross bite, open bite, overbite greater than 50%, overjet greater than 4 mm, crowding greater than 2 mm and multiple anterior diastema; orthodontic treatment recently finalized (less than 1 year); recently used upper orthodontic retainer (less than 2 months); presence of ankyloglossia; presence of TMD; presence of previous change in speech.

Changes in speech caused by different upper removable orthodontic retainers at the time of installation and after 21 days of device use, checked by acoustic analysis of formants and auditory perceptual analysis of speech, and will be considered a variation of 5% the measurements pre, post and immediately after 21 days of installation of the devices.
Differences in perception of patients to several factors during 21 days of upper orthodontic retainers use, assessed by a visual analog scale of 100 mm, and will be considered a difference of 5% between devices.
Effects of manipulation of foot muscles in people who have acquired brain injury
Manipulation of intrinsic muscles of the foot in people with acquired brain injury
A study conducted with nine adult patients who can stand up without help of the upper limbs. Evaluation and re-evaluation (was performed immediately after the manipulation of the intrinsic muscles of the foot) through baropodometry. The manipulation was performed with the hands of the physiotherapist positioned in the region of the medial edge of the lateral edge of the foot pulling the region of back foot towards the forefoot alternately. The time set for each operation was 15 seconds and five replicates for each slide.
Patients with acquired brain injury;
Ability to stay in standing position without assistance of the upper limbs.
Do not assume standing position; 
Age below 18 years; 
Increased contact area of the plantar surface after manipulation of the muscles of the foot. To evaluate the results will be used baropodômetro calibrated with a time of 15 seconds for each analysis.
Expected to improve the balance after manipulation of the muscles of the foot. To evaluate the results will be used baropodômetro calibrated with a time of 15 seconds for each analysis.
Effects of exercise on nerve action that controls the muscle fibers and blood vessels of patients with pre-dialysis chronic kidney disease
Effect of aerobic exercise on muscle sympathetic nerve activity in predialysis chronic renal
Experimental group: 9 subjects in stage III chronic kidney disease underwent two experimental sessions in random order: exercise (45 minutes on an exercise bike) and rest (sitting 45 min). After exercise / rest, they were measured: sympathetic nerve activity, blood pressure, heart rate, and forearm blood flow. Peripheral vascular resistance was calculated. It was also collected proteinuria 24 hours.
Control group: 12 healthy subjects underwent two experimental sessions in random order: exercise (45 minutes on an exercise bike) and rest (sitting 45 min). After exercise / rest, they were measured: sympathetic nerve activity, blood pressure, heart rate, and forearm blood 
21 Men and women; between 30 and 60 years; Without participation in structured physical activity; not obese; nondiabetic. They were divided into 2 groups: Control (normotensive patients) and Chronic renal disease, stage III (creatinine clearance 30 to 60 mL / min / 1.73m2, hypertensive controlled in use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or  Angiotensin receptor antagonists).
Patients with anemia; in the chronic kidney disease group, we excluded patients who were taking beta-blockers and sympatholytic. And also with creatinine clearance 
 Outcome found: after the exercise session, patients of kidney disease and control group showed reduction in blood pressure, sympathetic nerve activity and peripheral vascular resistance, compared to the rest session.
There were no increases in proteinuria in patients with kidney disease, after an aerobic exercise session, compared to the rest session.
Effects of an Educational Action on Knowledge and the Cardiovascular Health Behavior of Men Metallurgical
Evaluation of an educational program on injury prevention cardiovascular diseases on human health
Intervention group (n = 67 participants) and control group (n = 68 participants); participants in the intervention group were subdivided into four sub-groups (Sub-group I1 n = 16; Sub-group I2 n = 17; Sub-group I3 n = 17; Sub-group I4 n = 17), because according to the principles of methodological reference the number of participants in each group must ensure the display of all individuals at the same time and can not exceed 20 participants. As for the participants in the control group were kept as Single Group (control n = 68).
In the intervention group interventions include lectures addressing prevention and control measures for cardiovascular disease, following the standard operating groups. The groups met weekly, and lasted for three months, where each meeting lasted about 50 minutes. The topics discussed at the meetings were predetermined by the mediator nurse and can be added by the participants in accordance with the emergence of doubts during the first meeting. Subjects include topics such as: high blood pressure, diabetes, stroke, heart attack, prostate cancer, healthy eating, physical activity, posture at work, cholesterol, smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity. Also part of the educational activities of various health professionals such as nutritionists, physiotherapists, medical and nurses. The meetings are conducted, mediated and recorded by the researcher, assisted by a nurse who participated as an observer, conducting the registration of non-verbal behaviors during meetings. Also the meetings include weekly evaluations (1x / week) with measurement of blood pressure, blood sugar control and anthropometric measures of all participants.
135 metallurgical workers were evaluated and the inclusion criteria for the evaluation are: being male; be aged between 18 and 70 years; being actively working on a metallurgical company selected in Metropolitan area of maringá-PR
Being out of the company and/or vacation during the recruitment period;refuse to participate in the intervention.
Outcome found: Score of knowledge about cardiovascular disease within the standard average of previous studies, verified by evaluating the Heart Disease Fact Questionnaire instrument (HDFQ-2) from 18.48 score points in the intervention group and 17.54 score points for the control group.
Outcome found: some changes in health behaviors, these related to the control and prevention of cardiovascular disease, verified through concrete changes in eating habits of both intervention and control groups, and decreased physical inactivity, evaluated by joining semi questionnaires -estruturados already validated in the literature. Also found decrease in mean diastolic blood pressure in the intervention group, evaluated from weekly assessments during the 3 months of intervention.
Identification of coping skills used by alcohol users who wish to stop using by telephone assistance
Identification of coping skills used by alcohol users in the withdrawal process in a telephone counseling service
The goal was to determine whether Brief Motivational Intervention increased the frequency of use of coping strategies to stop the consumption of alcohol. To investigate the coping strategies was applied Coping Behaviours inventory- Brazilian version at the beginning and the end of follow-up via phone at 132-Call Service National Information and Guidance on Drugs. Participants to call the service were divided into two groups: Experimental: 42 participants men and women who were intended to stop the use of alcohol and started counseling using the Brief Motivational Intervention. CONTROL: 63 participants men and women who were intended to stop the use of alcohol and started counseling that provided drug information.
Alcohol users who used at least once in the past year with or without the licit or illicit drugs capable of understanding the reading of the survey instrument and who accept participate in the study after oral exposure of the free and informed consent (IC) .
Sample size target is 105 particpantes
Individuals will be excluded who do not understand the questions; those who are high on drugs at the time of interview and those who refuse to participate in the study
The outcome was found that both participants who took part in the experimental group receiving counseling with brief motivational intervention as participants in the control group receiving advice only with drug information used more coping strategies to stop the use of alcohol at the end of follow-up . Ie there was no significant difference between groups. The method used to check the expected outcome was the holding of open questions about alcohol consumption application assessment questionnaire consumption and alcohol dependence questionnaire and coping Behaviours inventory- Portuguese version The parameter for evaluation was the acomparação if the participants in the experimental group were advised to brief motivational intervention stopped using alcohol more users to the control group that received only drug information. In addition it will be assessed the degree of dependence modified and changed their behavior more
Secondary outcome was found that participants initially used more frequently strategies related to behavioral factors after getting cease use and used more strategies related to cognitive factors at the end of follow-up.   To check the secondary endpoint was held the questionnaire coping Behaviours inventory- Portuguese version The parameter was the frequency of use of strategies. If the participant always used or often or sometimes or never given strategy
Effect of physical training exercises performed at home with the help of videoaula in renal patients
Effect of physical training home associated with the use of technology in patients with end stage renal disease 
Intervention group: 40 renal patients on hemodialysis will do a muscle endurance training 50 minutes, home, 4 times a week for 3 months, and that training will be conducted with the aid of a video-lesson (technology)
Control group: 40 renal patients on hemodialysis conduct assessments and reassessments only at the end of 3 months.
Individuals aged 18 years or more; of both sexes; diagnosed with CRF and on kidney dialysis, who are not performing exercises frequently, having dvd player at home.
Patients unable to take exercise, without cognitive capacity, which prevents the understanding and implementation of the proposed exercises, which are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Improvement in renal function of patients undergoing resistance training, assessed by clinical examination.
Improvement in anthropometric aspects of patients undergoing resistance training, evaluated by measurements of weight, height, Body Mass Index and waist circumference.
Behavioral and educational intervention: effects on return visit rates to receive the results of the Pap smear
Behavioral and educational intervention: effects on adherence of women to return visit to receive the results of the Pap smear
Experimental group 1: 227 women participated in an educational intervention (cognitive therapy) on the Pap smear through a flip chart and a test demonstration using an anatomical model of the pelvis and the material of the exam. At the end, they received a card with the date of the return visit and the name of the professional. 

Experimental group 2: 226 women received a bracelet (behaviour therapy) with the day of return visit and the name professional recorded in it. Control groups: 322 received the service standard intervention, which was a card containing the date of return visits (graphic reminder). The women were randomly allocated to groups. Interventions were made while the woman was waiting for the realization of the Pap smear at the institution. By return 40-50 days after the exam, women should return to the unit to get their result.
The size of the target shows: 775 women.
The sample selection followed the following eligibility criteria: have initiated sexual activity and perform the Pap smear in the data collection period. Minimum age: 18 years and maximum: 80 years.
As defined exclusion criteria were: present cognitive limitations that prevent them from answering the questionnaire, to participate in educational or behavioral intervention; and we have not done for any reason, cytologic collection.
Difference between the percentage of no return between the behavioral groups, educational and compared, analyzed using Pearson's chi-square. It was also compared to the average number of days in each group returned by analysis of variance (ANOVA). All these data were analyzed from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the measurements between the groups.
Factors related to the non-attendance of women to return visit, to receive the results of the Pap smear.  The socio-demographic data were measured (age in years, schooling in years of education, marital status in percentage, in real income, sexual debut in years ...) and categorical data were compared in percentage through the test chi-square. The scale variables were compared in its average value.
Acute and chronic cardiovascular responses to resistance training in individuals with intermittent claudication
Acute and chronic cardiovascular responses to resistance training in individuals with intermittent claudication
Individuals will be randomly divided into two groups: resistance training (RT) and control intervention group (CO) with 15 patients in each group. Individuals in both groups will participate in a pre-trial intervention session (session pre-chronic) and an experimental session post-intervention (post-chronic) to analyze the chronic effect of different interventions. Training in both groups will consist of two sessions per week for 12 weeks. The sessions of the RT group will consist of 3 sets of 10 repetitions in eight resistance exercises alterned by segment with two minutes of rest between sets and exercises. The exercises will be: bench press, leg press 45, central row, leg extension, frontal raise, leg flexion, biceps curl and hip abduction. The CO group will perform during the same period stretching exercises and joint mobility. To analyze the effect of acute exercise only group participants TF held in two experimental sessions in random order (control and exercise), which will be held after the initial 3 sessions of resistance training.
Aged 45 to 85 years; both genders; be on stage II of Peropheral Artery Disease in one or both limbs, according with Fontaine criteria; be able to walk on a treadmill at least two minutes at a speed of 3.2 km/h; and, be with systolic and diastolic blood pressure levels less than 160 and 105 mmHg, respectively
Individuals who are in use of beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers or vasodilators non-dihidropiridinico; presenting complex arrhythmias or ischemia that contraindicate physical activity; having diabetes with complications or autonomic dysfunction, who are obese and they have amputated limbs.
After the training period (12 weeks) is expected reduction approximately 4mmHg in clinical and ambulatory blood pressure, which will be obtained by the oscillometric method in the laboratory and in ambulatory conditions.
Heart rate reduction obtained by electrocardiogram; reduction of the double product obtained by the product of heart rate and systolic blood pressure; improving the quality of life obtained by the Short Form-36, whose range is from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the level of the the worst quality of life and the highest level 100; improved body composition by bone density X-ray double (increased lean mass and decreased fat mass) increased physical fitness as measured by treadmill test, which will provide data on total distance walk and distance of onset pain (both in meters); and, the test of one repetition maximum  which will provide the strength of individuals in bodybuilding movements, measured in kilograms;
Clinical trial of the effectiveness of telephone nursing care to individuals with inflammatory bowel disease
The telenursing in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases: a clinical trial 
The intervention group of 113 participants will receive presencias nursing care already in use in the unit, together with telenursing  to be held biweekly with non-invasive behavior guidance , standardized and evaluation of the intestinal inflammatory activity by the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index  and the Harvey Bradshaw Index to the 24 weeks long. The control group of 113 participants will receive presencias nursing care already in use in the unit, where are these opportunities evaluated by the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index and the Harvey Bradshaw Index to the 24 weekslong.
volunteer with Crohn disease in remission and light activity; volunteer with ulcerative colitis in remission and light activity; both genders; aged between 18 and 60 years. 
volunteers with cognitive disorder; volunteers without acess to phone; volunteers with special needs that preclude the telenurssing.
Reducing the number of relapses in the 24 weeks verified by the Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index  and Harvey Bradshaw index from finding a variation of at least 5 % in the before and after intervention measurements .
Reduction in hospitalization rate for complications of Inflammatory Bowel Disease. 
Brief Intervention for Alcohol Use and Domestic Violence Among Women
Patterns of Domestic Violence and Alcohol Use Among Women: Effectiveness of A Brief Intervention In A Household Setting 
61 Women with scores equal to or higher than 8 points in the AUDIT (Alcohol use disorders identification test) were considered risk users and randomly allocated to one of two groups: a Treatment Group (32) and a Control Group (29). The Treatment Group received one single session of Brief Intervention (BI) after the screening. The Control Group did not receive any intervention on that occasion. 
It was a single-blind study.
Women between 18 and 60 years old, enrolled previously in a household survey, who presented score equal to or higher than 8 in the AUDIT (high risk alcohol use)
Women with evident cognitive impairment
Women´s alcohol consumption, measured with AUDIT (Alcohol use disorders identification test), which was assessed at baseline and after three months
Physical and Mental Health, measured using a general health questionnaire and the CES-D (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale – used to measure depressive symptoms); Patterns of domestic violence, measured using the CTS2 (Revised Conflict Tactics Scales) and the CTSPC (Parent-Child Conflict Tactics Scales), both used to obtain information on partner violence and violence between parents and children, respectively. All secondary outcomes were measured at baseline and after three months 
Evaluation of Mastication and Bite force in complete denture wearers
Influence of Occlusion guidance and Mandibular ridge resorption on Masticatory performance and Ability, and Maximum occlusal force in complete denture wearers
Clinical, crossover study, two-armed, double-blind, randomized controlled study about the influence of occlusion guidance and mandibular bone resorption on masticatory performance and ability, and maximum occlusal force in complete denture wearers with new dentures.Experimental group 1: 25 edentulous, both genders, with resorbed mandibular ridges. Control group: 25 edentulous, both genders, with normal mandibular ridges. All individuals will be assigned to bilateral balanced occlusion and canine guidance, on alternate and sequential periods of 30 days. Evaluations of masticatory performance and ability will be conducted by the sieves method and application of specific questionnaire based on visual analog scale, respectively, and maximum occlusal force will be measured by means of a gnatodynamometer. These evaluations will be carried out 30 days after each period of use of each type of occlusion. Masticatory performance will be evaluated by the sieves method using almonds, and expressed in percentage. The responses to the masticatory ability inventory will be measured in millimeters, and a mean value will be obtained for each group
Adults ndividuals; both genders; bimaxillary edentulous; aged 40 to 90 years, of both genders; users or non-conventional complete dentures; requiring preparation or replacement of dentures; receptives; mentally agiles; good understanding of speaking Portuguese; mandibular ridges with normal or resorbed volume; normal amount and quality of saliva
Debilitating systemic diseases; pathological changes in the oral tissues; neuromuscular impairment; temporomandibular disorders
Percentage of masticatory performance of complete denture wearers evaluated by means of the sieves method in periods of 30 days from the variation of the occlusion guidance 
Bite force of complete denture wearers evaluated by means of a gnatodynamometer in periods of 30 days from the variation of the occlusion guidance 
Consumption of fruits and vegetables in promoting health services
Consumption of fruits and vegetables in promoting health services in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais: associated factors and nutritional interventions
Intervention group: Users (n = 1500) of health service participate in collective nutritional intervention duration of 60 minutes, 2 times a month over seven months. Control Group: Users (n = 1500) of health seviço participate in intervention of the health service lasting 60 minutes over 7 months.
Members of the Academia da Saúde Program; both genders; aged between 20 and 90 years.
Pregnant; mental disability
Increased consumption of servings of vegetables verified by the Recall 24 hours from the finding of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Reduction in body weight verified by direct weighing, from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
nterventions to enhance infection by the tuberculosis agent identification and treatment prescription in persosn without active disease.
Public health actions to enhance latent TB infection treatment.

The study will consist of two phases. In the first phase, we will conduct a survey to identify the bottlenecks in the different steps since the identification of contacts to the treatment of those who are infected, in order to prevent progression to active disease. During this phase, we will apply a questionnaire with open answers to around 30 participants of each of the following categories: index cases, household contacts, nurses, physicians, and community health agents. The sample size will be limited by saturation.
In the first phase (diagnosis of the bottlenecks)
Subjects with active pulmonary tuberculosis and  their household contacts aged 18 or over; health care workers who assist tuberculosis patients
Only in the first phase: not agreement to participate or sign the informed consent. No associated co-morbidity prevents the participant to take part in the study (mainly concerning active tuberculosis screening).  
20% increase in the proportion of subjects (among all identified contacts) that start latent tuberculosis infection treatment verified through the contact registry book
Increase in the proportion of those who complete treatment verified through the contact registry book OBS: it is not possible to foresee in which proportion each of these steps will increase. The sample size was calculated based on a 20% increase of the primary outcome.
High-voltage pulsed current (HVPS) promotes cicatrization of chronic cuaneos ulcers
Effect of Hight Voltage Pulsate Current on chronic cutaneous ulcers treatment
The treatment of the injury consisted on High Voltage Pulsed Current application (100 microseconds, 100/150 Volts, 100 Hz) for 30 minutes, 2 times weekly for 12 months.The active electrodes were placed with negative polarity on the injury and dispersive with positive polarity pathway in vascular
Inclusion criteria was considered both genders, aged between 18 and 80 years and the presence of chronic cutaneos ulcers of any etiology and that no contamination 
The presence of wound infection
On the initial evaluation and after each session, wounds were photographed and subsequent scanned into a software, that does the calculation of the area of injury in cm². Given the experimental conditions carried out, one can verify that the HVPS was effective in healing chronic cutaneos ulcers.
High Voltage Pulsate Current promoted reduction in the area of the lesions treated and even the complete closure of most of them.
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multi-center Phase III Study of Brivanib versus Sorafenib as First-line Treatment in Patients with Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multi-center Phase III Study of Brivanib versus Sorafenib as First-line Treatment in Patients with Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Comparison group: 525 patients will receive 800 mg brivanib orally, once daily, and placebo for sorafenib twice daily. Control group: 525 patients will receive sorafenib 400 mg orally twice daily, and placebo for brivanib once a day. All drugs under study are blind and must be ingested without food. The code will remain blinded until the end of the study.
 In the absence of intolerable toxicity, individuals continue to receive therapy every day until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. If the investigator determines that the individual is benefiting from the drug being studied and the blind person wants to continue the study drug blind, treatment may continue beyond the radiographic progression
Voluntary signed and dated written informed consent form in accordance with
regulatory and institutional guidelines obtained before the performance of any
WOCBP who are unwilling or unable to use an acceptable method to avoid
pregnancy for the entire study period and for up to 12 weeks after the last dose of
Primary endpoint of this study is overall survival. Subjects will be evaluated for tumor response every six weeks. Documentation of disease state will be performed by contrast enhanced  computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Progression will be determined based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) for HCC. All randomized subjects will be followed for survival. An independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will be instituted for the phase III HCC program of brivanib. The DMC will review the efficacy and safety data after 158 death events occur in this study. In addition, the Sponsor will independently review safety data in a blinded manner during the conduct of this trial to ensure that any safety issues are identified and addressed. 
Time to progression is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression. Subjects who never progress will be censored at their last tumor assessment date. For subjects with no tumor measurement, TTP will be censored at the date of randomization Objective response rate is defined as the proportion of randomized subjects in each treatment arm, whose best response is CR or PR using modified RECIST criteria as assessed by the investigators. Disease control rate is defined as the proportion of randomized subjects in each treatment arm, whose best response is CR, PR or SD using modified RECIST criteria as assessed by the investigators. Duration of response is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death for randomized subjects whose best response is PR or CR. Subjects who neither progress nor die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment. Duration of disease control is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or death for randomized subjects whose best response is PR, CR or SD. Subjects who neither progress nor die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment. Time to response is defined as the time from randomization to the time when response criteria are met for CR or PR, whichever occurs first. Time to response is computed only for subjects whose best response is CR or PR.
Fluoride varnish to prevent dental caries in primary teeth
Effectiveness of fluoride varnish to prevent dental caries in primary teeth
Children will be divided into two groups: group A, with 110 participants, who will receive the application of fluoride varnish (Duraphat, Colgate Oral Pharmaceuticals, New York, NY, USA) in the dosage recommended by the manufacturer for primary teeth, which is up to 0.25ml (= 5,65mg fluoride); and group B, with 110 participants, who will be the control group and will not receive application of fluoride varnish.
Children will be included from 1 to 4 years;
Which are classified in the A + risk B - / +, C - / +, D - / + and - / +, F - / + G - / +;
Children will be excluded classified A- risk;
Children who received professional application of fluoride in the last six months;
Increase in number of teeth with caries experience given by the dmft and ICDAS, at least in 30% of teeth, measured at the beginning and end of the study. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Resistance exercise effects on function, balance and gait in children with cerebral palsy
Effect of a Protocol of Resistance Training in functional capacity, balance and gait in the children with Cerebral Palsy
Control group: 10 children with spastic cerebral palsy will be treated by professionals working at the Early Stimulation Tratment Center (NUTEP) at the Ceara Federal University, in sessions with 30 minutes of Occupational Therapy and 30 minutes of Physical Therapy exercises, totaling an hour with the objectives stretching, trunk control, muscle strengthening, bimanual activities and fine motor coordination. 
Experimental group: 10 children with spastic cerebral palsy will be treated by resistive training in sessions with 60 minutes, it will be applied in a specific equipment and will include multi-joint resistance exercises of lower limbs and trunk control, with progressive load and number of repetitions, according to the child. 
Children with spastic cerebral palsy will be recruited from the registration NUTEP patients (N = 20). Inclusion criteria will be children with good cognition, GMFCS (Gross Motor Function Classification System) levels I to III, mean age 3-8 years.
Previous orthopedic surgery; botulinum toxin injection in the previous 6 months; cardiac, respiratory or psychological conditions that compromise the implementation of the study.
Reduced of execution time in seconds of sit-stand performance on at least 15%, after 12 weeks of intervention,  verified by Timed up and go test, realized before and after the intervention.   
Increased of distance walked in meters on at least 30%, after 12 weeks of intervention, verified by 6-min walk test, realized before and after the intervention.    Reduced of ellipse area in square centimeters and the lengths of the x and y axes in centimeters, on at least 20%, after 12 weeks of intervention, verified by stabilometry, realized before and after the intervention.     Increased of the plantar surface in square centimeters, on at least 20%, after 12 weeks of intervention, verified by stabilometry, realized before and after the intervention.  
Study to evaluate safety and possible adverse reactions, especially serious, with a vaccine for measles and rubella in healthy subjects.
Phase I trial to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of Measles and Rubella vaccine (MR) for measles and rubella, in young adults
The study will count on 30 subjects vaccined. Two doses of a single batch of measles and rubella vaccine, produced by Bio-Manguinhos/Fiocruz will be administered subcutaneously. The interval between doses will be 42-51 days.
Healthy volunteers on screening; male; aged between 18-49 years; availability to provide personal data; availability in strictly follow the research protocol; accept not participate in any other clinical trial during this one and up to 6 months after the end; ability to understand and sign the informed consent term; ability to record symptoms at home; acceptance of HIV testing for HIV, HBV and HCV.
Serious adverse event due to the study vaccination; acute or chronic disease; use of allergy shots with antigens, up to 14 days prior to study vaccination; immunoglobulin use in the last 12 months prior to vaccination; use of blood products in the 12 months prior to vaccination; use of any type of vaccine 30 days before vaccination; Chronic use of any medication, except for homeopathic and trivial; previous use of immunosuppressant or cytotoxic medication; use of any investigational medication 1 year prior to vaccination; asthma (unstable, that has required urgent care in the last 24 months, or requiring the use of corticosteroids); neurological, cardiovascular, respiratory, hepatic, renal, hematologic, rheumatic or autoimmune - clinically significant; coagulopathies; Seizures before age 2 years; psychiatric illness that hinder adherence to the protocol; Active malignancy; asplenia; HIV, HCV and / or HBV positive; alcohol abuse (CAGE criteria); illicit drugs abuse; congenital or acquired immunodeficiency; allergy vaccine components, such as egg, neomycin and gelatin.
Among the 30 vaccinated subjects, 12 (40%) had at least one adverse event requested after the first dose and 6 (20%) after the second dose. No serious adverse events were recorded. Of the 18 laboratory results to increase postvaccination degree , compared to pre- vaccination , 4 were classified as grade 3 and one as grade 4 without clinical significance.
The geometric mean titers (GMT) for measles and rubella increased after the 1st and 2nd doses , compared to pre-vaccination titers. The ratio of measles TMG post/pre 1st dose was about 3 times, and rubella, 1.5. The ratio GMT measles post 2nd dose/pre 1st dose was 3.1 and 1.5 rubella again.
Pilates exercises and breathing in the elderly
Influence of exercise based on the principles of Pilates respiratory muscle performance in older
The intervention is based on the application of Pilates exercises. The sample consists of 60 elderly women who undergo a randomization and will be divided into two groups - one that will make Pilates classes and participate in educational lectures on health in old age (experimental) and others who attend the lectures only (control). The operating time is 12 weeks. The experimental group will make two Pilates sessions a week, totaling 24 sessions. The lectures will take place monthly during 3 months.
For inclusion in the sample, the subject should be female and must be between 65 and 80 years; may not have neurological and/or musculoskeletal disorders that preclude the exercises; can not use any assistive mobility device and must present cognitive state compatible with the education evaluated by the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE).
Will be excluded the elderly woman who refuses to participate in the research, have pain complaints, a hypertensive crisis or syncope during the course of training or miss two training sessions planned.
The practice of exercises based on Pilates changes the Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) and Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP), assessed by Manovacuometry in healthy elderly.
Check the effect of exercises based on Pilates in the ability to generate work, power and endurance of respiratory muscles.
Anxiety in musicians and recognition of the face
Musical performance anxiety and recognition of facial expressions: clinical randomized study involving the general population and acute effects of oxytocin
Intervention: for a group of 30 musicians will be administered intranasal single dose of oxytocin (24UI (international units) -  4UI vs 3 applications per nostril))

Control intervention: the same group of 30 musicians will receive control intervention: intranasal administration of the placebo - single dose 24UI (4UI vs 3 applications per nostril 4UI) 
Age above 18 years; Male sex; Professional activities or amadora as a musician, with frequent public presentations at significant audiences.
Neurological and / or psychiatric disorders, excluding anxiety disorders; Renal, pulmonary, hepatic and / or cardiovascular diseases; Current use of tobacco, psychoactive substances and any kind of medication; Harmful alcohol use
Accuracy (rate - percentage) and reaction time (mileseconds) in the recognition of facial expressions of emotion before and after administration of oxytocin
Level of general anxety (mean scores on the Beck Anxiety Inventory) and performance anxiety (mean score in Musical Performance Anxiety Inventory Kenny)  before and after administration of oxytocin
The use of intranasal ketamine before puncturing a vein in children
Ketamine intranasal used as sedative for punch venosa in pediatric patients
This study consists of two arms: placebo and intervention. Patients in the intervention group receiving ketamine drug dose 4 mg / kg once, and those in the placebo group received saline at a dose 4 mg / kg once. The sample 20 subjects in each group.
The attending physician who is treating the child should indicate the use of the sedative before the procedure, citing the study for the escort and requesting the presence of the nurse for further explanation. The accounting Legal consenting to child participation, will be prescribed in the patient
Children hospitalized in the Pediatric Inpatient Units, with the presence of legal guardian; aged 3 months to 12 years; requiring venipuncture independent research.
Severe neurological sequelae; Patients who need immediate venipuncture at risk; Presence of active nosebleeds; Patients using antipsicotrópicos; Children who have experienced clinical change with ketamine
Decreased venipuncture time in sedated patients with a variation of 3 and a difference of 3 minutes compared to patients not sedated, checked by timing the venipuncture time
Easier implementation of venipuncture performed by nurses using a questionnaire as a tool
Occurrence and treatment of oral mucositis in subjects in the treatment of head and neck cancer
Polihexanide the effectiveness of evaluation in the treatment of oral mucositis: a randomized clinical trial
Experimental group or intervention: composed of 30 participants, who will receive the gel with polihexanide (substance test). Control group comprised 30 participants who will receive the gel without polihexanide (control substance). Substances test and control are applied in randomized way, applying topically on the full extent of the lesion in the mouth, 3 times a day over a period of 08 to 15 days or until complete healing.
Will be allocated to study cancer patients treated with any chemotherapeutic agent and / or radiotherapy in cervicofacial fields; aged over 18; treated in UNACON; who didn
They will be excluded from the study: patients who refuse to participate in the study; under 18; already in treatment of mucositis; with an allergy to some component of the substances being applied in the study; who refuse to perform subsequent oral assessments; to discontinue the antineoplastic treatment for a period equal to or greater than 8 days; to suspend the use of the substances analyzed in the study; who are hospitalized terminally ill cancer; preventing the oral evaluations, and patients who come to death.
Absence of oral mucositis within 8 or 15 days,after initiation of treatment.  The method to be used to verify the expected outcome will be made by clinical evaluations (signs and symptoms) from the 1st day of applying the gel, according to the WHO classification criteria. Absence will be considered when the classification of mucositis match the grade 0 (Clinical signs of mucosa within normal limits and without painful symptoms of reports by patients).
Regression of oral mucositis within 8 or 15 days, after initiation of treatment.  The method to be used to verify the expected outcome will be made by clinical evaluations (signs and symptoms) from the 1st day of applying the gel, according to the WHO classification criteria. Example: IV degree of regression to grade III. (The patient has ulcers, however, reports the possibility to feed orally via liquid foods.)
Effects of  physiotherapy assisted by virtual games in the recovery of daily activities and well-being of patients with kidney disease on hemodialysis
Effects of  physiotherapy assisted by virtual reality in functionality and quality of life of patients with chronic renal failure in dialysis
Sample size were calculated based on the functional capacity assessed by previous studies using a power of 0.95, with a 1.19 effect size and a 0.05 alpha. Thus 40 patients will be recruited, 20 for each study group. Eligible participants will be selected and recruited in your dialysis unit, they will be randomly assigned to two groups (intervention and control) .The patients assigned to the control group will maintain its conventional treatment which involves dialysis 3 times a week, for average 4 hours. It is noteworthy that this group does not perform any physical exercise during or after replacement therapy. Conversely, patients allocated to the intervention group will start physical training program during dialysis sessions within the first two hours of therapy. They will practice exercise for 12 weeks with a frequency of three times a week and initial duration of 30 minutes progressing to 60 minutes of exercise. The protocol will follow the principles of subjectivity, overload and reversibility, according to the patient assessment. The training program will consist of aerobic exercise as the cycle ergometer and the race simulation by Nintendo Wii and resistance exercises in which the movements associated with virtual reality games will be held with the use of sand leggings weighing about 0.5 kg to 2kg and Thera-Band® with different color-coded levels of resistance. The whole exercise will be done with upper limb without the arteriovenous fistula and both lower limbs, with the individual kept in the sitting position. The intensity will be individualized based on the perceived exertion Borg scale (respecting the perception threshold in the range 13 or less), heart rate training should stay within 50-75% of maximum heart rate and measurements of blood pressure (measured by sphygmomanometer).
Volunteer both genders; older than 18 years; sedentary; performing hemodialysis three times per week for at least three months; stable clinical condition in terms of no hospitalizations or cardiovascular events within the 3 months prior to screening; Systolic blood pressure (SBP) 
Volunteers with diagnoses of pulmonary, neurological or psychiatric disorders; presence of unstable angina; recent myocardial infarction less than 6 months; symptomatic left ventricular fibrillation; decompensated heart failure; visual and / or hearing disorders; musculoskeletal limitations; hemiplegia or hemiparesis that compromise the ability to perform the exercises; hospitalization during the study period; neoplasms in current chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy; diagnosis of infection by the human immunodeficiency virus; scheduled kidney transplant or already carried out; volunteers who are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
To assess depression we used the screening scale for depressive symptoms - Center for Epidemiological -Depression Scale (CES-D). Originally, the CES-D scale cutoff point for identifying the presence of depressive symptoms is ?16 points, but their use in chronic renal patients demonstrates that a ? cutoff 18 points present a better diagnostic accuracy (NOVAK et al. , 2010).
Hospitalization and mortality from various causes within 12 weeks of follow-up of the individual.
Study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the implant of Cerebral Hypothermia Exclusive by Nasopharyngeal (posterior region of the nose) Catheter use to Treatment of severe Head trauma 
Efficacy and Safety of Hypothermia Cerebral Exclusive deployment through the use of catheter Nasopharyngeal in Human Beings for the treatment of seriuos (ou (severe) brain trauma Phase I Study
single group; 10 participants; Nasopharyngeal cooling treatment for a period of 24 hours;
Patients both male and female aged 18 to 70 years; Confirmed diagnosis of TBI; Glasgow Coma Scale 8; Use of definitive airway devices (tracheal tube, tracheostomy or cricotireoideostomia); Ssaturation of oxygen (O2) blood above 92%; Monitoring Indication of PIC by the neurosurgery team responsible for the case; patients, or their legal representatives who signed the informed consent.
Patients with early brain temperature 
Percentage of respondents considering responder as every participant who meets the following two criteria: reducing brain temperature by at least 2 ° C during the intervention period (24 h) with respect to the basal temperature, as measured by catheter PIC with intraparenchymal or ventricular temperature sensor; and maintaining the brain temperature below the systemic temperature at least 2 ° C for at least 90% of the total period of 24 h intervention (which corresponds to 22 h 30 min). 
Percentage of participants normothermic, defined as systemic temperature 36 and 37 ° C, measured by rectal thermometer (preferred), esophageal or bladder for at least 90% of the total period of 24 h intervention (corresponds to 22 h 30 min ); Percentage of responders in 120 min after the start of cooling, as measured by PIC catheter with intracerebral ventricular or temperature sensor; Difference between brain temperature basal (mean basal measurement) and brain temperature with in 120 min after the start of cooling (mean of measurements in the period) in the group of responders and non-responders; Difference between brain temperatures obtained by BTT sensor and obtained by PIC catheter during 24 hours of the intervention; 
Comparative trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of antibody treatment in patients with early breast cancer
A randomized, double-blind, phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of ABP 980 compared with trastuzumab in subjects with HER2 positive early breast cancer
ABP 980/trastuzumab 8 mg/kg: Monoclonal immunoglobulin (IgG1) directed against the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) receptor. Randomized, multicenter, double-blind, active-controlled study of ABP 980 compared with trastuzumab in adult women with HER2 Positive early breast cancer. In total, approximately 808 patients will be enrolled to receive the run-in epirubicin and cyclophosphamide each 3 weeks for 4 cycles, to ensure approximately 768 patients (approximately 384 per treatment group) will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either ABP 980 or trastuzumab plus paclitaxel during the neoadjuvant treatment phase, each 3 weeks for 4 cycles. In Brazil, approximately 35 patients will be enrolled. Breast and sentinel node or axillary lymph node resection will be completed 3 to 7 weeks after the last dose of investigational product in the neoadjuvant phase. Following surgery, subjects will receive ABP 980 or trastuzumab every 3 weeks for up to 1 year from the first day of investigational product administered in the neoadjuvant phase. Patients who received trastuzumab during the neoadjuvant phase will receive either ABP 980 or trastuzumab Q3W for the adjuvant phase. The allocation to a treatment group during the neoadjuvant or adjuvant phase will occur at randomization. All investigational products administered during the neoadjuvant phase and the adjuvant phase will be in a blinded manner.
Females equal or older than 18 years of age. Histologically confirmed invasive breast cancer. Planning for surgical resection of breast tumor and sentinel node (SN) or axillary lymph node resection. Planning neoadjuvant chemotherapy. HER2 positive disease defined as: 3+ overexpression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or HER2 amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). 
Measurable disease (assessment method used in order of priority: ultrasound, mammography, MRI, or physical examination) in the breast after diagnostic biopsy, defined as longest diameter equal to or longer than 2.0 cm. Known ER and PR hormone receptor status at study entry. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of equal to or more than 55% by 2D echocardiogram. Normal bone marrow function as defined by: absolute neutrophil count (ANC) higher than 1.5 x 10^9 g/dL (1,500/microL); platelets higher than 100 x 10^9 g/dL (100,000/microL); hemoglobin higher than 10.0 g/dL. Normal hepatic function as defined by: total bilirubin within normal institutional limits; aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT); lower than 2.5 × the upper limit of normal (ULN); subjects with an elevated unconjugated bilirubin (Gilbert
Bilateral breast cancer. Presence of known metastases. Received prior treatment, including chemotherapy, biologic therapy, radiation or surgery with the exception of diagnostic biopsy for primary breast cancer. Other concomitant active malignancy or history of malignancy in the past 5 years except treated basal cell carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma in situ of the cervix. Pre-existing clinically significant (equal to or higher than grade 2) peripheral neuropathy. Any history of documented or current congestive heart failure, current high-risk uncontrolled arrhythmias, current angina pectoris requiring a medicinal product, current clinically significant valvular disease, current evidence of transmural infarction on electrocardiogram (ECG), or current poorly controlled hypertension. Severe dyspnea at rest requiring supplementary oxygen therapy. History of positivity for hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis C virus, or HIV. Recent infection requiring a course of systemic anti-infectives that were completed equal to or less than 14 days before enrollment (with the exception of uncomplicated urinary tract infection). Woman of childbearing potential who is pregnant or is breast feeding. Woman of childbearing potential who is not consenting to use highly effective methods of birth control (eg, abstinence, sterilization, birth control pills, Depo-Provera injections, or contraceptive implants) during treatment and for an additional 4 months after the last administration of the protocol specified treatment. Currently receiving treatment in another investigational device or drug study, or less than 30 days since ending treatment on another investigational device or drug study. Other investigational procedures while participating in this study are excluded. Subject has known sensitivity to any of the products to be administered during the study, including mammalian cell derived drug products, trastuzumab, murine proteins, or to any of the excipients. Subject previously has enrolled and/or has been randomized in this study. Subject likely to not be available to complete all protocol required study visits or procedures. History or evidence of any other clinically significant disorder, condition or disease (with the exception of those outlined above) that, in the opinion of the Investigator or Amgen physician, if consulted, would pose a risk to subject safety or interfere with the study evaluation, procedures or completion.
Risk ratio (RR) of the incidence of pathologic complete response (pCR) in breast tissue and axillary lymph nodes. Subjects will undergo a lumpectomy or mastectomy with sentinel node or axillary node dissection expected to be scheduled within 3 to 7 weeks after the last dose of investigational product in the neoadjuvant phase and pCR will be analyzed. This analysis will consist of a laboratory reviewing your tumor samples (both breast tissue and lymph nodes) under a microscope to check for remaining cancer cells.  If no cancer cells can be found, it is considered that there was “pathologic complete response” (pCR).
Risk difference (RD) of pCR in axillary lymph nodes and absence of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS)
Investigation of the effect of the consumption of the soluble fiber on the serum cholesterol levels and fractions in children and adolescents.
Investigation of the effect of psyllium in the process of atherosclerosis juvenile

 Initially,all recruited participants went through a phase of adaptation to a diet restricted in saturated fat(
Inclusion criteria: Children and adolescents (6-19 years) that had a fasting plasma total cholesterol over 170mg/dL (4,40 mmol/L) or LDL-cholesterol over 110mg/dL (2,84 mmol/dL) concentrations, same after were treated initially with similar diet the National Cholesterol Education Program step 1 diet (saturated low-fat diet (
Patients with cardiovascular diseases or  or other chronic medical conditions were excluded from the study, as were those whose diabetes.
Children and adolescents with triacylglycerol concentrations of over 3.39 mmol/L or whose Body Mass Index (BMI) according age was higher than 30 kg/m² or female pregnant were also excluded. 
To comprove an effectiveness of psyllium for the reduction of LDL-cholesterol levels in dyslipidemic children and adolescents investigated in the study.  The effectiveness of psyllium was measured through the difference of the concentration of the LDL-C before and after the period of 8 weeks of intervention in each group and enters the two types of treatments (cellulose and psyllium).  The effectiveness was considered when the presented results had shown to a percentage of reduction of the séricos levels of LDL-C  above 5% (primary outcome). The evaluation biochemist was the method used to measure of the lipídico profile before and after the treatment. 
Dietary profile and  weight maintenance  before and after the treatment by participants.   All the participants  had its anthropometric (weight, waist circumference, skinfolds thickness) and dietary profiles (record and food frequency questionnaire) measured before and after the treatment.  
Effects of the Open Lung Concept following ARDSnet Ventilation in Patients with Early ARDS
Evaluation of a Sequential Ventilatory Strategy in Patients with Acute Lung Injury (ALI)/Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS)
Fifteen patients were initially ventilated according to the ARDSnet protocol. During the next 24h,patients were divided in 2 groups. Group 1 with nine patients who were ventilated according to the Open Lung Concept, applying recruitment maneuvers, for more 24 hours. Group 2, with six patients, remained ventilated according to ARDSnet for more 24 h . Ventilatory variables, arterial blood-gas and cytokine were obtained at baseline, 24 and 48h. Additionally, whole-lung-computed tomography was acquired at 24 and 48h. 

Patients with the diagnosis of Distress Respiratory Syndrome presenting PaO2/FIO2 lower than 300 mmHg after 30 min of mechanical ventilation with a PEEP of 5 cmH2O and an FIO2 of 1.0 and a VT ranging from 8 to 10 mL/kg of ideal body weight along with hemodynamically stable parameters (mean arterial pressures higher than 65 mmHg and arterial lactates lower than 3 mg/dL) over the preceding 6 hours.
Patients with the diagnosis of Adult Distress Syndrome for more than 48 h. Diagnosis of pneumothorax. Diagnosis of pneumomediastinum. Bronchopleural fistula. Subpleural blebs. Increased intracranial pressure. Body weight greater than 140 kg. Pregnancy. Coexistent disease with an expected 6-month mortality risk exceeding 50%.
Expected endpoint - Improvement of respiratory function (PaO2/FIO2)when ventilation with the concept of open lung was applied, in comparison with ventilation according ARDSnet protocol  Observed endpoint - Significant improvement of respiratory function with ventilation according to open lung concept in comparison with ventilation according ARDSnet protocol(median of PaO2/FIO2=270 mmHg vs 177 mmHg, respectively).
Expected endpoint - Stable serum levels of inflamatory markers when ventilation with the concept of open lung was applied, in comparison with ventilation according ARDSnet protocol  Observed endpoint - Stable inflammatory  markers with ventilation according to open lung concept were observed. 
Effects of continuous aerobic and interval exercise in patientes with heart failure 
Effects of continuos aerobic and interval trainin in function cardiopulmonary in patients with heart failure: randomized controlled trial 
Experimental group 1 (Continuous training group): 20 patients with heart failure who will perform aerobic exercise continuously (same intensity at all times) for 12 weeks, 3 sessions per week of 30 minutes per session on a treadmill, with supervision of the health team.
Experimental group 2 (Group interval training): 20 patients with heart failure who will perform interval workout (alternating moderate and high intensities) for 12 weeks, 3 sessions per week of 30 minutes per session on a treadmill, with supervision of the health team.
Cardiologist forward with diagnosis confirmed by clinical and complementary test (echocardiogram); Patient with Functional Class I, II and III HF according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA); 20 ejection fraction to 53% by echocardiography detects the last 6 months; Both genders; Clinical stability; Heart Failure compensated; Spirometry with FEV1 / FVC
Decompensated heart failure development; CPET or arrhythmias during exercise identified by clinical and / or ECG changes; unstable angina; embolism; acute systemic infection; Lock 3rd degree AV (without pacemaker); pericarditis or acute myocarditis; uncontrolled arrhythmias; ST-segment depression
Increase in cardiopulmonary fitness checked through the cardiopulmonary stress test from increased Maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max).
Increase in quality of life seen through a specific questionnaire (Minnesota Living With Failure Questionnaire - MLHFQ) from a reduction in the questionnaire score.
Biomaterials for preventing sensibility after home bleaching
Randomized clinical trial of the nano-hydroxyapatite and arginine effect for the 
dentin sensibility prevention after bleaching home treatment
Experimental group 1: 20 volunteers of both
genders were treated with home dental bleaching with carbamide peroxide at 22%, and the application of Nano-hydroxyapatite. 
60 people aged between 18 and 26 years;
any genders; good health; non-moking;
Having received previous dental bleaching;
restorations on the anterior teeth; pregnant
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 4 weeks.  There is no interference in the results of the bleaching treatment in the groups assessed, verified by spectrophotometry, from the observation of the increase in the value of Delta E (indicating the success of the bleaching treatment), after 4 weeks.
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 1, 2 and 3 weeks.
Screening of patients with hypercholesterolemia  caused by family origin: development of a method for identifying genetic mutations that cause the disease and association between genetic and clinical characteristics of patients
Cascade screening of familial hypercholesterolemia from the development of a genotyping method and association of patients genotype and phenotype
Observacioanl study. We will standardized a method for identifying mutations causing familial hypercholesterolaemia and, from this method, we will identified patients with Familial Hypercholesterolemia in different regions of Brazil, defining cardiovascular risk and association of genotype with phenotype found in patients. The genotyping method is based on the amplification of deoxyribonucleic acid, using the polymerase chain reaction and sequencing of the amplified product by Sanger sequencing using sequencer Hitachi 3500 Genetic Analyzer (Applied Biosystems® AB, Foster City/USA) and using the BigDye® Terminator Kit (AB Applied Biosystems®, Foster City/USA). The assembly of contigs and analyis of quality will be made through the package Phred/Phrap/Consed (http: //www.phrap. org). Confirmation of fragments identit will be carried out using the BLAST algorithm (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST). Amplification will occur using specific primers for each exon of the low density lipoprotein receptor. The primers will be designed using the BLAST algorithm (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST), Bioedit sotfware (bioedit.software.informer.com) and Primer Select (DNASTAR Lasergene v6). The collection of samples (whole blood, serum) will be performed after 12 hours of fasting using vacuum system for blood collection (10 milliliters). Eventually, bucal swabs can be used to genotyping. The project will occur in the cities of Papanduva (Santa Catarina) and Bom Despacho (Minas Gerais), where we obtained support from the Municipal Health Department and the professionals responsible for sample collection. Based on personal information (obtained by questionnaires), laboratory parameters (biochemical analysis), treatment history (obtained by questionnaires) and genotyping, the identification of index cases with familial hypercholesterolaemia will be made. After sequencing of the genes that cause familial hypercholesterolaemia and from the mutations found, screening will be done on first, second and third degrees of index cases. It will be carried out assessment of risk markers for cardiovascular disease, such as total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose, small and dense fraction of low-density lipoprotein, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, urea, creatinine, C-reactive protein with high sensitivity, ApolipoproteínaB, lipoprotein (a), by laboratory methods. All laboratory tests will be carried out in the Research Laboratory of Lipids, Antioxidants and Atherosclerosis of the Department of Clinical Analysis at UFSC and Clinical Laboratory of University Hospital, Federal University of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis. The sets of reagents will be obtained from the company Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc- United States, and performed in automated equipment Dimension (Siemans Healthcare Diagnostics Products GMBH - Germany). The small dense fraction of low density lipoproterína will be determined after the selective precipitation of other lipoproteins with heparin and chloride magnésio. Quantification of C-reactive protein of high sensitivity will be held in the automated device nephelometer Behring BN II (Siemans Healthcare Diagnostics Products GMBH - Germany) with set of reagents Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc - USA).  Anthropometric measurements and blood pressure measurement will also be performed. Will be measured weight (kg) and height (meters), with equipment (Welmy, São Paulo-SP), consisting of scale with a capacity of 200 kilograms and 100 grams of scale and stadiometer with capacity up to 2.0 meters and scale 0.5 cm. Body mass index (BMI) will be estimated according to [weight/height squared]
Individuals with concentration of low density lipoprotein cholesterol above 160 mg / dL, and their relatives first, second and third degrees. Both genders.
Not include exclusion criteria.
Using the standard method, make a definitive diagnosis of the index cases by identifying mutations in the receptor gene of the low density lipoprotein cholesterol.
Trial cardiovascular risk in individuals with and without familial hypercholesterolemia. Evaluate the difference in the levels and prevalence of dyslipidemia in individuals assessed by the concentration of total cholesterol, cholesterol of low density lipoprotein (LDL-C), cholesterol in small, dense fraction of low density lipoprotein (sd LDL), triglycerides, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). To assess the renal and hepatic function through the enzyme creatinine, urea analysis, and aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotrasnferase. Expected to observe the occurrence of diabetes and insulin resistance through the glucose analysis, insulin and calculating the homeostatic model assesment (Homai). To observe the prevalence of subclinical inflammation, through the C-reactive protein analysis of high sensitivity (hs-CRP) and uric acid. Expected to observe the prevalence of prehypertension and hypertension, through the measurement of systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Expected to observe the prevalence of overweight and obesity in students, by calculating the body mass index (BMI). The values are presented as mean and standard deviation, or absolute and percentage value. Differences between individuals with and without the disease will be analyzed by  Student t-test or Mann Whitney test for parametric and non-parametric data, respectively, and p less than or equal to 0.05 is considered significant.
Study of cardiac and metabolic control in women with polycystic ovary syndrome
Correlation study of the adaptations into cardiac autonomic modulation and metabolic parameters in women with polycystic ovary syndrome submitted to aerobic training
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome untreated (PCOS group, n=60) and control group without the syndrome (control group, n=60): 120 women (33 ± 3 years) who were divided into two groups were studied. Each group was divided into three smaller groups (n=20) according to the percentage of body fat (22-27%, 27-32% and 32-37%) assessed by bioelectrical impedance method.
All subjects underwent a protocol of physical training with 16 weeks duration , intensity adjusted to 90 % of heart rate (HR) obtained in anaerobic threshold through the cardiopulmonary exercise test. The protocol was performed supervised aerobic training on treadmill four to five times per week with duration of 60 minutes per session, with monitoring of blood pressure and heart rate.
Women aged between 18 and 40 healthy years and diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome belonging to the outpatient clinic of Gynecology and Obstetrics of the University were not engaged in regular physical activity (least 2 times per week)
Exclusion criteria: women in use of contraceptives or other drug treatment, smoker (regular consumption of cigarettes or tobacco-derived.); alcoholic (physical and psychological dependence on alcohol); who had mental disorders that hindered the understanding and execution of tests; disabling musculoskeletal disorders (osteoporosis, fractures unconsolidated, muscular dystrophy, low back pain) and cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, heart failure, arrhythmias).
The program of aerobic exercise training in PCOS group promoted beneficial on many factors evaluated effects, such as increased adiponectin and decreased interleukin-6 and TNF-alpha, however, its greatest effects were on glucose tolerance, fasting insulin and leptin.
The program of aerobic exercise training caused a decrease in blood glucose levels of the PCOS groups with higher percentages of body fat (27-32% and 32-37%), values ??similar to those observed in the group with lower body fat percentage (22 - 27%). As for the values ??of leptin, all groups decreased after training, however the SOP group trained with greater body fat percentage (32-37%) showed higher values ??than the other. Regarding adiponectin, aerobic exercise training promoted an increase in the groups with higher percentages of body fat, generating similar values ??among all trained groups. Finally, analysis of IL-6 after exercise training showed that the group with the highest percentage of body fat declined significantly, however, this group also showed higher values ??compared to the other groups also trained.
Monitoring Overweight women by Nursing Telephone Assistance 
Monitoring of Overweight women by Nursing Remote Assistance
Intervention group: 50 women receive weekly phone calls lasting 5 to 10 minutes with educational content on weight control care, food guidance examples, water intake, physical activity and doubt clarification. This group will also receive routine treatment through periodic consultations with the health team. Control group: 50 women will receive routine treatment through periodic in-person consultations with health staff without phone calls. Both groups will receive conducted evaluations before intervention and after a follow-up of 3 months through 5 instruments: I questionnaire - for Socio-demographic characteristics, clinical, anthropometric and lifestyle); questionnaire II – obesity knowledge and its control measures; questionnaire III – food standard evaluation; IV – Scale of Body silhouette Figures; V -. International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ. After a three month period the tools II, III, IV and V and measured anthropometric measurements will be applied
Women with a body mass index greater than or equal to 25 kg / m2; who have made at least one visit in the last twelve months; and who have home or mobile phone.
Women without physical conditions like amputations for weight and height measurements; with mental confusion; in cognitive conditions that prevent them from responding questionnaires and reading text messages; diagnosed with severe psychiatric disorders; using drugs for weight loss and undergoing bariatric surgery
Reduction of waist circumference (WC) verified by the measurement with flexible and inelastic tape to the nearest 0.1 cm. For determining the expected outcome, a reduction of at least 3% in the pre and post intervention WC will be considered
Improved body image perception assessed by the scale of body silhouette figures proposed by Stunkaret al, used before and after intervention. To find the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% used in the pre and post scale intervention will be considered
Influence of two interventions for temporomandibular disorders on the eletric activity of the masticatory muscles and balance.
Influence of the inespecifc mobilization and the massotherapy on the eletromiographic sign of masticatory muscles and the static balance in individuals with temporomandibular disorders. Clinical Trial.
Temporomandibular Joint Mobilization nonspecific in 15 subjects with Temporomandibular Dysfunction.  Massotherapy in 15 subjects with DisfunçãoTemporomandibular. Temporomandibular Joint Mobilization nonspecific associated with massage therapy in 15 subjects with dysfunction temporomandibular.
Age: 18 to 50 years old. Diagnosed with temporomandibular joint disorder. Complete Dentition (except for the 3rd molars).
Dental protesis. Open and/or Crossbite. Mandibular prognatism or retrognatism. Neurological Disturbance. In Physioterapic or odontologic treatment.
The clinical outcome is expected, after 10 sessions of nonspecific mandibuar mobilization and massage providing the balance of activation of masticatory muscles, in TMD patients, providing increased range improving mandibular chewing. The gain range of motion is measured using a caliper and the improvement of masticatory function is evaluated by means of electromyography and diagnostic criteria for TMD.
The clinical outcome is expected, after 10 sessions of  nonspecific mandibuar mobilization and massage  provide balance in the anteroposterior and mediolateral, in TMD patients. The balance will be measured by means of a stabilometric platform.
Treatment of mouth articulation
Effects of upper cervical spinal
Experimental group: high-speed and short range´s tecnichal in the upper cervical spine.
Held on 20 volunteers, with a frequency of once per week for a period of 5 weeks.
The subjects of both groups must have a diagnosis of TMD according to the DRC, axis I, accompanied by pain and / or fatigue in the muscles of mastication during functional activities for a minimum period of one year and maximum of five years, with body mass index (BMI) to 25 kg/m2.
Was excluded from the study women with any missing teeth (except third molars), open bite, crossbite, suffering from partial or complete dentures, orthodontic treatment and / or medication (analgesics, anti-inflammatories and muscle relaxants), those who received treatment with cervical spine manipulation in the past 6 months and those in physiotherapy. Also, was excluded women with systemic neuromuscular diseases, migraine, history of trauma to the face and / or ATM, joint dislocation and testing extension and rotation of the head, which assesses the flow of the vertebral artery and the Sharp-Purser , indicating upper cervical spinal instability positive.
It is expected that the upper cervical spine manipulation in promoting an improvement in the agonist-antagonist in masticatory muscles measured by EMG, increased range of motion of the jaw of depression assessed with calipers and decrease the severity of TMD evaluated by anamnesis index of Fonseca. 
The data regarding the effect of upper cervical spine manipulation in the evaluation of the cervical spine are being processed.
Effect of protein supplementation and physical exercises in the amount of muscle and in the physical function of elderly with low strength
Effect of protein supplementation and resistance training on muscle mass and strength and physical function in sarcopenic elderly
There will be three intervention groups and a control group:

1- protein supplementation - 20 participants - the participants will ingest 15g of a proteic supplement, daily, for a 3 months period.
Older adults, age sixty years or older; sarcopenic, hand grip strength lower than 20 kg for women and lower than 30 kg for man and/or gait speed lower than 0.8 m/s.
Cognitive deficit; illiteracy; immobilism;diagnoses of congestive heart failure, chronic kidney failure, cancer or descompensated diabetes.
Increased muscle strength verified by means of grip strength, considering a significant increase in the average of the values obtained in the measurements before and after the  intervention.  Increased functionality verified through tests sit and stand and Timed up & go tests, considering significant reduction in the average of the values obtained in the measurements before and after intervention.
Decrease in fat percentage verified by means of bioimpedance, considering a significant reduction in the average of the values obtained in the measurements before and after the intervention. Decreased insulin resistance verified by means of biochemical examination, considering a significant reduction in the average of the values obtained in the measurements before and after the intervention.
Comparison of the effects of two anesthetic protocols on the glycemic levels of patients undergoing extraction.
Comparison of the effects of 2% lidocaine solutions with adrenaline 1: 100,000 and prilocaine 3% with felipressin 0.054 iu / ml in concentrations of blood glucose during exodontia.
Between June 2015 and November 2016, a prospective study will be carried out on 60 diabetic patients with simple exodontic needs and who seek dental surgery at the outpatient clinic of Oral Surgery I, Department of Dentistry, Federal University of Sergipe, Aracaju, Sergipe, Brazil. .
During phase I all participants will have baseline body parameters measured, such as blood pressure, heart rate, saturation and capillary glycemic levels (T0). Patients who present blood pressure less than or equal to 140 by 90, heart rate less than 100 bpm, saturation above 97, and post-pandial glycemic levels of 250 mg / dL will be recommended for the next phase.
Patients older than 18 who will sign the TCLE; Medication-controlled diabetes mellitus; Patients in need of a simple exodontia in the mandible region using as an anesthetic technique the blockage of the inferior and buccal alveolar nerve; Surgical difficulties similar.
Patients under 18 years of age; Any general health problems, based on medical history and physical examination;History of use of any type of medicine in the 15 days prior to the beginning of the research;History of hypersensitivity to drugs, substances or materials used in this experiment;Pregnancy or lactation;Anatomical location of the tooth unfavorable to the inferior alveolar and buccal nerve block.
Evaluation of glycemic levels in diabetic patients submitted to exodontia. The method used: capillary glycemic test. Application of statistical tests: t test of studant and anova of one and two ways. With confidence index of 95%
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Strengthening exercises for strength and ability to manipulate objects in people with rheumatoid arthritis in the hands.
Strengthening exercises for hand muscles to increase strength and improve functionality in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis hand deformities.
The study was divided into 2 groups: Intervention Group and Control Group. The Intervention Group performed a rehabilitation protocol which consisted of exercises to strengthen the force of intrinsic muscles of wrists and hands. The exercises were performed twice a week for two consecutive months, totalizing 20 sessions. The supervised exercises were performed by the patient in sitting position with her feet kept on the floor, followed by a series of exercises beginning with both free and motor coordination tasks. Next, strengthening exercises were performed with both hands by means of Digiflex hand exerciser, modeling mass, and elastics, with each session lasting 35 minutes on average. 	Both intensity and load of the strengthening exercises were increased every three weeks by adding repetitions to each series and adjusting the Digiflex load depending on the individual capacity of each patient. All patients with interphalangeal ortheses were encouraged to perform the exercises using them. The subjects of intervention group were also given a primer showing how to make the exercises at home, once a day for three days a week. These at-home exercises were not performed at the same day as the supervised sessions.
Women diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis  and presenting deformity in at least one of the fingers of each hand participated voluntarily in the present study. Each hand should present at least one of the following deformities: swan neck, boutonniere finger and Z-shaped thumb. Deformities as bouchard
Women presenting other rheumatoid arthritis -related diseases and/or who entered the exacerbation phase (symptoms of inflammation in the hand joints) during the experimental time were excluded from the study. 
Measurement of handgrip strength using a dynamometer JAMAR and pinch strength using a dynamometer Preston Pinch Gauge, at (Kgf) scale. The handgrip strengths in the dominant and non-dominant hands were measured with the subjects seated on a chair, hips and knees flexed at 90o, feet kept on the floor, upper limbs in adduction position, elbows at 90o, and wrists in neutral position. The pinch strength (PS) was measured for both hands in which four different pinch tasks with digit pulps were performed: the first pinch movement involved index finger and thumb (PS1); the second involved third finger and thumb (PS2); the third involved fourth finger and thumb (PS3); and the fourth involved fifth finger and thumb (PS4). Each woman performed three sustained contractions for 6 seconds, with a 30-second rest interval between each contraction for both handgrip and pinch strengths evaluations. A mean value was obtained from the three measurements. All evaluations were made by only one examiner. The intervention group  was re-evaluated after 10 and 20 physiotherapy sessions . The controle group was re-evaluated after 2 and half months.   
The Short-Form 36 Medical Outcomes Study (SF36) questionnaires were used to evaluate the quality of life of all women. Both groups were evaluated at the beginning and at the end of the study . 
Use of diabetes medication to prevent diabetes during pregnancy
Prophylactic use of Metformin in Gestational Diabetes Mellitus
Intervention group: 200 pregnant women who will be randomized to 20 weeks of gestation, will be subjected to treatment with use of metformin hydrochloride 500 mg orally after breakfast and dinner daily, until the end of pregnancy. All pregnant women in the study will receive standard monitoring being met by the nutritionist, nurses, physiotherapists and obstetricians. Control Group: 200 pregnant women who will be randomized to 20 weeks of gestation, will be accompanied by the end of pregnancy being met by the nutritionist, nurses, physiotherapists and obstetricians.
Pregnant women will be diagnosed with GDM selected according to the criteria of the World Health Organization; aged over 18 years; singleton pregnancy; with screening for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) in early positive pregnancy; gestational age between 11 and 33 weeks; no pathology that interferes with glucose metabolism; no hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride or important drug allergy; history or presence of liver disease; renal or gastrointestinal or other conditions that interfere with absorption; distribution; excretion or metabolism of the drug.
They will be excluded from follow-up losses; intolerance to drugs; desire of the mother and presence of risk to the fetus.
Reduction of cases of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in pregnant women who have made the use of metformin hydrochloride, 2 times a day (breakfast and dinner), the realization of the reduction will be performed by biochemical analysis through oral test of glucose tolerance (OGTT) to be held during the gestational trimesters. It expects a 50% effectiveness in reducing cases of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus which will be proven through statistical tests and comparing the concentrations in the OGTT test and control groups.
Decreased neonatal hypoglycemia in infants whose mothers had made the use of metformin hydrochloride during pregnancy. For evaluation of this variable will be held plasma glucose dosage of newborns according to protocol guidelines of the Brazilian Society of Pediatrics. For realization of the expected outcomes will be performed statistical tests and comparing the concentrations of plasma glucose in babies of mothers of test and control groups.
Effects of Exercise and Diet on the Functional Status, Nutritional Status, Lipid Profile and   Life
Effects of Exercise and Nutritional Intervention on the Functional Status, Nutritional Status, Lipid Profile and   Life
Patients will be allocated to one of five groups provided: (The duration of the intervention will be 12 weeks)
Resistive Exercise group: Composed of 31 patients who will perform resistance exercise during hemodialysis.
155 patients of both sexes; aged 20 and 79; for at least three months in haemodialysis treatment; sedentary; kidney therapy performed through access fistula; and adequacy of treatment of haemodialysis (Kt/V
patients with disability and severe orthopedic impairments; acute myocardial infarction history in the last six months; recent hospitalization (
Difference muscle mass average of at least 0.8kg assessed by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) after 12 weeks of intervention  
Improved functional capacity determined by the 5% reduction in time spent on the test "Time up go".
The interference of the nail polish on oxygenation in patients with lung disease in exercise.
Evaluation of interference of finger nail polish on peripheral oxygen saturation in patients with pulmonary disease at rest and during exercise.

The study included 42 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In the same patient, was used four colors of nail polish (base, light pink, red and brown) randomly distributed on the fingers of his right hand, as control of the hand contralateral fingers of the same patient. The oxygen saturation was measured at rest with and without enamel and during the 4th, 5th and 6th minute of exercise. Data collection was performed only once in each patient and in the period 2007 to 2009.




Patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD);
Current non-smokers;
Heart disease (heart failure, arrhythmia); Musculoskeletal disease; 
Scleroderma;
Values of peripheral oxygen saturation above 90% measured by pulse oximetry once at rest before and after nail polish  and once during exercise.  
Values of oxygen saturation expected after the use of nail polish assessed during the fourth, fifth and sixth minutes of exerciseless than 90%.  
Acute effect on the strength of exercise with different loads and muscle mass recruited in cardiovascular variables: blood pressure, heart rate, rate-pressure product and post-exercise hypotension in healthy women and active
Acute effect of resistance exercise of different intensities and recruited muscle mass in hemodynamic variables: blood pressure, heart rate, rate-pressure product and post-exercise hypotension in active normotensive women
A group of 13 women with weight training experience participated in 4 experimental sessions (crossover design),distanced 7-10 days and performed randomly, starting from 07: 30h to 10: 30h. The sessions will be: B10 (3 sets of 10 repetitions bilateral in leg-press machine, with 80% of 10 repetitions maximum load), B20 (3 sets of 20 reps on the leg press machine, with 80% of 20 repetitions of charge maximum) U10 (3 sets of 10 repetitions in the unilateral leg-press machine, with 80% of load 10 unilateral repetitions maximum) and COM (10 minutes sitting). After the sessions, the participants will be taken to an isolated room remaining for 1 hour for analysis of post-exercise hypotension
Healthy normotensive women; aged between 18 and 30 years; with minimum experience of 8 months in resistance training; has no personal history of cardiovascular disease; in continuous training in ER of at least four months.
Known cardiovascular disease; arterial hypertension; smoking; diagnosed osteoporosis; musculoskeletal problems that prevent or restrict the realization of the leg-press exercise 45; make use of any medication or drugs that stimulate the cardiovascular system.
It will be measured at the end of each resistance exercise series the following variables: maximum blood pressure by auscultation (sphygmomanometer Welch Allyn DS66 Trigger); maximum heart rate (heart rate monitor FT7 Polar ®); maximum double product. After each exercise session will be analyzed post-exercise hypotension for 1 hour, with blood pressure measured every 10 minutes
After each series will be analyzed: heart rate recovery (Polar® heart rate monitor FT7) and perceived exertion (adapted Borg scale)
Effects of mild versus moderate training in patients with heart failure.
Comparison of the effects of mild versus moderate aerobic training on the inflammatory markers, on oxidative stress and quality of life, in patients with chronic heart failure – a randomized clinical trial.
Two training protocols isocaloric:
ARM 1: physical training of moderate intensity, performed on a treadmill, in heart rate corresponding to 60% of VO2 peak, lasting 30 minutes, 3 times per week, for 12 weeks.
Patients with diagnosis of heart failure for at least six months, clinically stable for at least two months before this study. 
Left ventricular ejection fraction 
User of cardiac pacemaker.
Inflammatory diseases in acute phase;
Quality of life (scores of the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire).
Six-minute walk test (distance). 
Low-level laser effect on the tooth root treatment
Effect of Photobioestimulation therapy on pain after Endodontic treatment: randomized clinical trial
Will be used 58 individuals aged between 18 and 60 years of both sexes diagnosed with Pulpite. Patients will be randomized in 2 groups with 29 participants in each group, the experimental group will receive endodontic treatment with WaveOne® instrumentation technique and immediately after photobiomodulation therapy with low-power laser application with the following criteria: wavelength 808 nm (infrared laser) , power 100mw, with 4 points of application, energy density per point 3 J / cm2 totaling 12J / cm2 for a tooth. In the control group will receive endodontic treatment with WaveOne® instrumentation technique. All procedures will be performed by a single operator. All patients will evaluate after 6, 12 and 24 hours by an examiner for checking the level of postoperative pain.
Adult patients; with endodontic treatment indication in permanent lower molars; diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis; have contact number to be able to perform the postoperative evaluations
Pregnant patients; administering any medication when treatment; immunocompromised; with hypersensitivity to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; patients who have teeth with endodontic complications (calcifications, external or internal resorption, partial formation of apical summit with dental drilling, with longitudinal or vertical fractures and severe periodontal disease); patients who can not have endodontic treatment completed in the same session; Patients who for any reason can not be contacted by phone for the evaluation of pain after endodontic treatment.
Presence or absence of postoperative pain after endodontic treatment using Waveone system and applying photobiomodulation therapy, which will be verified by two scores measuring pain, numerical and verbal description, a reduction of 30% of expected pain after endodontic treatment using only the Waveone system and outcomes will be presented by percentage
Influence of predictor variables (age, sex, tooth, prior dentin sensitivity) on the primary outcome variable of pain after endodontic treatment, verified by history taken before performing the treatment
Comparitive study between Carnoy and GEWF solutions for identifying lymph nodes in patients with cancer of the large bowel
Randomized clinical trial comparing Carnoy
Colorectal adenocarcinoma patients,  consecutively submitted to surgical treatment performed by colorectal surgeons with more than 10 years of professional experience at Hospital Moinhos de Vento (Porto Alegre, Brazil), will  have their surgical specimens subjected to conventional anatomopathological examination for the analysis of the  lymph nodes (visual and palpation) performed by a highly qualified pathology technician in lymph node clearing technique. The lymph nodes identified in this preliminary examination will be counted and submitted to pathologic examination with hematoxylin and eosin staining for lymph node metastasis by a pathologist with over 10 years of experience. Upon completing this procedure with the patients with colon cancer, those with rectal cancer will be randomized and have their surgical specimens submitted to the lymph node clearing technique with Carnoy
Patients with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum; both sexes; over 18 years of age; underwent surgical treatment performed by colorectal surgeons; agreement of the attending physician and the patient to participate in the study ;
Inaccuracy or unavailability of patient´s data.
Increased lymph node sample: additional number (unit measure) of lymph nodes identified by the lymph node clearing technique (visual and manual  examination with Carnoy's or GEWF solutions)  compared to the initial number (unit measure) of lymph nodes identified by the conventional technique (visual and manual examination with formaldehyde). 
Indication for adjuvant treatment: patient (unit measure) who had indication for adjuvant treatment (chemotherapy, radiotherapy or combined chemoradiotharepy) to treat  colorectal cancer due to the outcome changes of the lymph node staging after using the lymph node clearing technique (visual and manual examination with Carnoy's or GEWF solutions).
Association between the fall of the bladder or uterus and postural balance in elderly women
Association between genital prolapse and postural balance in elderly women
Clinical observation by Baropodometry. Evaluation by functional tests, namely the Functional Reach test and Berg Scale Questionnaire. All patients will be equally evaluated only once.
Women aged over 60 years old  and less than or equal to 80 years old.
Respiratory disorders, surgeries of the spine, abdomen, and pelvic floor central nervous system, brain tumors, neurological disorders, vestibular and limbic, central and peripheral degenerative diseases, trauma, clinical symptoms such as dizziness, tinnitus, hearing loss, ear fullness, postural hypotension, medicines that change the balance, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, pelvic floor rehabilitation in the last year, visual impairment or patients with corrective lenses that did not follow the last 2 years, bone densitometry showing osteoporosis in past 3 years
Change the center of gravity in women with grade 3 and 4 genital prolapse, baropodômetro verified by using the method of Gagey & Weber (2000), using the parameters: amplitude of displacement of the center of pressure in the anterior-posterior and medial lateral directions, total length of the trajectory of the displacement of the center of pressure, and the average speed reached by the center of pressure (VM). Was considered statistically significant when p <0.05.  
Changes in the electrical activity of the pelvic floor muscle in relation to postural change the parameters found in the assessment of pelvic floor electromyography.
Comparison of Anti Pneumococcal Vaccinal Response in HIV-positive Adults
Comparison of Response to Vaccination with Three Different Schemes Pneumococcal Vaccine in Adults Infected by Human Immunodeficiency Virus
Randomized, blinded clinical trial comparing immunogenicity of three different schemes of antipneumococal vaccine in HIV-infected adults: Group 1 – 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine and Group 2 – 7-valent conjugate vaccine and Group 3 - 7-valent conjugate vaccine followed to 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine 60 days after. Each group included 110 individuals. To assessment of immunogenicity, serotype-specific antipneumococcal antibodies was measured before first vaccination, day 60th (immediately before second vaccine) and day 180th. All patients were contacted between 3 to 7 days after each vaccination to evaluation of adverse event related to vaccination.
All individuals aged 18-60 years with HIV infection documented by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western-Blot testing, and with T-CD4 count above 200 cells/mm3 in two different occasions in the past six months were eligible. Were included in trial individuals who demonstrated understanding and signed consent form.
Exclusion criteria included: any acute febrile illness at the moment of vaccination, active AIDS-defining clinical condition, previous immunization with any of the pneumococcal vaccines, any systemic malignancy neoplasm, use of immunoglobulin within the last three months, current pregnancy, antecedent of allergy to any of the pneumococcal vaccine components.
At baseline there were no significant differences across the three groups in geometric medium concentrations of antipneumococcal antibodies or in the proportion of individuals with IgG antibody concentration above 0.35 mcg/mL or 1.0 mcg/mL for all serotypes analyzed. Sixty days after the initial dose, all study groups showed significant increases in geometric medium concentrations of the antipneumococcal antibodies for all serotypes. At day 180, the antibody levels decreased in all groups for all serotypes, though less markedly for serotypes 6B and 14 in recipients of a 7-valent conjugate vaccine and booster with 23-valent polysacharide (Group 3). The mean concentration of antipneumococcal antibodies and the proportion of individuals with antibody concentrations above 0.35 mcg/mL and 1.0 mcg/mL 60 days post-vaccination were similar for the three serotypes analyzed.  However, the proportion of individuals who achieved at least a 4-fold increase in antibody levels was higher to serotypes 6B and 9V in patients primed with 7-valent conjugate vaccine (groups 2 and 3). At day 180, no significant differences were observed for all serotypes as to mean antibody concentrations and proportion of individuals with IgG levels above 0.35 mcg/mL or 1.0 mcg/mL, but the proportion of patients mounting antibody response of at least post- to prevaccination 4-fold increases was lower to serotypes 6B and 9V in recipients of 23-valent polysacharide alone (group 1). No statistical differences were observed after receipt of 7-valent conjugate vaccine alone (group 2) compared with a 23-valent polysacharide after 7-valent conjugate vaccine priming (group 3) in all measurement. All strategies were well tolerated. No severe local or systemic symptoms were reported.
.
Ventilation by nasal apparatus in preterm infants
Application of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation after extubation in neonates
Experimental group: 36 newborns undergoing noninvasive positive pressure ventilation was applied settings on the ventilator (respiratory rate , inspiratory time , positive end-expiratory pressure , inspiratory flow and pressure , fraction of inspired oxygen ) . The group was accompanied ( as vital signs, blood gas parameters , settings mode and extubation failure ) before extubation , immediately after and at 15 , 30, 45 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours , 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours after the first extubation .
Control group 1 : 33 newborns undergoing nasal continuous positive airway pressure through water ` d stamp was applied settings ( positive end expiratory pressure , flow, fraction of inspired oxygen ) through a bubbling system is seal ` d water . The group was accompanied ( as vital signs, blood gas parameters , settings mode and extubation failure ) before extubation , immediately after and at 15 , 30, 45 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours , 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours after the first extubation .
Preterm newborns admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of the Hospital Sofia Feldman, diagnosed with Respiratory Distress Syndrome of the Newborn (characterized by progressive respiratory failure after birth), gestational age less than or equal to 34 weeks and weights of the 500 grams less than or equal to 1500 grams classified as appropriate for gestational age, requiring ventilatory support after extubation
Newborns with congenital anomalies that compromise the cardiorespiratory system, genetic disorders, neuromuscular disease, malformations of the central nervous system
The primary outcome in this study was to evaluate the need for intubation within the first 48 hours after extubation in the first three groups and the success rate. A failure extubation observed via clinical judging team with basis following parameters respiratory acidosis pH <7.25 and partial press carbonic Gas at arterial> 65 mmHg; the mean number of apneas (> 6 in 6 hours); episode of apnea, which is characterized by cessation of breathing for 20 seconds associated with central or peripheral cyanosis and bradycardia - heart rate <100 bpm) that does not return with stimulus and indicate reanimation and / or tracheal intubation, constantly evaluated by the medical staff; consistent increase (> 2 hours) in need of oxygen above 50% by use of noninvasive ventilatory support to maintain oxygen saturation in the desired range Outcomes observed: about 80.8% of the sample had successful extubation of newborn infants that failed 70% were male.
Secondary outcomes were related to noninvasive support and correlations with sex, gestational age, total duration of oxygen use, total duration of mechanical ventilation and bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Another review was done regarding the failure vs. success, with the days of supplemental oxygen, pulmonary ventilation and occurrence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Other outcomes included incidence of pneumothorax, patent ductus arteriosus, high oxygen pressure, peri-intraventricular hemorrhage, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, necrotizing enterocolitis, nasal injury, hospitalization duration, total days on oxygen, total days of mechanical ventilation and death . The newborns were followed until hospital discharge Observed outcomes: newborns who failed (19.2%) had a higher incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (p <0.04) and longer duration of oxygen use (p <0.01)
Effects of pumpkin (Cucurbita ficifolia Bouché) in lipid and glycemic profile of type 2 diabetics individuals: a randomized double blinded clinical trial
In vivo evaluation and monitoring with nanosensors effect hypoglycemic of cucurbita ficifolia Bouché in type 2 diabetic patients
The volunteers hyperglycemic (
Individuals diagnosed with pre-diabetes (
Individuals diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes for over 6 months with blood glucose 
Found improvement in metabolic parameters in pumpkin group from the finding of a change of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements: plasma glucose, HOMA-B, TC, TGL, the total lipid, PA. Still it found in pumpkin group, a significant difference in weight loss after surgery.
Secondary outcomes are not expected. 
Use of the device Magic Touch for the Treatment of Coronary Lesions
Magic Touch
60 patients will be included in 2 cohorts.

Cohort A: 20 pacientes treated with Magic Touch for In-stent restenosis.
The patient must be more or equal 18 or less or equal 80 years of age; Symptomatic ischemic heart disease; Acceptable candidate for coronary artery bypass graft surgery or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ; The Patient is willing to comply with specified follow-up evaluations;  The Patient or legally authorized epresentative has been informed of the nature of the study, agrees to its provisions and has been provided written informed consent, approved by the appropriate Medical Ethics Committee (MEC), Institutional Review Board (IRB), or Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC);Patients with restenosis of native coronary artery previously stenting (BMS) (Cohort A) and patients with single de novo lesion not treated with stent in the target vessel (Cohort B); Patients with multivessel coronary artery disease may have been undergoing treatment successfully vessel with non-target devices approved up to and including the index procedure, but before the index treatment of the target vessel. Any vessel or target lesion not to be treated during the index procedure, can not be located in unprotected left main trunk, ostium, bifurcation or venous grafts or with chronic total occlusion (CTO), severe calcification or angiographic evidence of thrombus from somehow requires performing atherectomy or thrombectomy pretreatment techniques other than balloon angioplasty; Target lesion located in a native coronary artery; Target lesion 15mm in length by visual estimate (cohort A); The target lesion (maximum length of 20 mm by visual estimation) is covered by a single stent Cronus at most 23 mm long (Cohort B); The reference vessel diameter must be more or equal 3.0 or and less or equal 3.5 mm according to visual estimation. The vessel diameter should be measured after the procedure predilatation and after intracoronary administration of nitroglycerin on suspicion of spasm; Stenosis of the target lesion more or equal 50% and less than 100% according to visual estimation.
Pregnant or lactating patients and are planning to become pregnant in the period of 1 year after the index procedure. Women of childbearing potential should have a negative result on a pregnancy test performed within 7 days before the 
index procedure; Patient with known diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) within 72 hours prior to the index procedure (increased concentration of troponin or CKMB more or equal 2 times the upper limit of normal) or more than 72 hours prior to the index procedure and the absence of return of CK and CKMB to within normal limits at the time of the procedure; The patient has clinical symptoms consistent with new AMI, as prolonged chest pain not responsive to the administration of nitrate; Impaired renal function or patients on dialysis; Platelet count less than 100,000 cells/mm3 or more than 700,000 cells/mm3 or a WBC count less than 3,000 cells/mm3; 
Evaluation of the percentage (%) of in-stent neointimal tissue formation by IVUS (Intravascular ultrasound) at six months.
Evaluation of the occurrence of death, IM,  Target Lesion Revascularization and stent thrombosis  at 30 days, 6 months and 12 months.  
Effects of the decreased carbohydrate intake in short-stature, excess weight women
Low-carbohydrate diet effects on women with excess weight and short-stature
All the 88 women will receive low-carbohydrate diets (50-130 grams per day), without number of meals restrictions and will be encouraged to participate in aerobic physical exercise sections, 3 sessions per week with 1 hour of duration. The intervention will last 1 year. 
Women; age between 20 and 45 years old; height less than 152,3 cm or higher than 158,7cm; body mass index higher than 25kg/m².
Individuals in Continuous use of drugs (immunosuppressors, insulin, thyroid hormones, anti-retrovirals); pregnant or lactating.  
Decrease in waist circumference in centimeters after 3 months of intervention, measured using an inelastic tape at the midpoint between the iliac crest and the last rib, of at least 10% of initial values.  
Decrease of serum insulin, measured in 12 hour fasting state, after 3 months of intervention, by a radioimmunoassay, of at least 10% of initial values.  
Action of Acupuncture on the ear to reduce pain in muscles and bones
Contribution of Auricular Acupuncture for reduction chronic musculoskeletal pain
It will be held as intervention for the four treatment groups with auricular acupuncture.
Auricular acupuncture is applied in four volunteer groups:
Size of Target Sample: 200. Age (18 years or more); orientation in time; place and person; report the presence of chronic pain (existing for six months or more); score more than four on the Numerical Pain Intensity Scale; have availability of time for submission to auricular acupuncture sessions.
Have infection; inflammation or injury to the ear; make use of piercing (except ordinary earring); people who have allergies to metal or micropore; those who use other energy therapies (massage; herbal medicine; reiki; flower therapy); physical therapy in period of auricular acupuncture; make continued use of medication for pain relief; do not answer three tries against to the researcher; refuse to receive the headset processing with needles and pregnant women.
Auricular acupuncture action in reducing chronic pain affecting the cervical, thoracic and lumbar regions in people with musculoskeletal disorders, within two months: before, during, after the application of ear acupuncture, and fifteen days after the end treatment. Pain intensity will be verified by varying the pressure pain threshold at predetermined points along the spine, which is measured by a digital algometer x Force in kilograms / square centimeter, from the finding of a change of at least five percent in pre and post intervention measurements.
Heart rate before, during, after the application of ear acupuncture, and fifteen days after the end of treatment. Heart rate is measured by the digital esfigmonanômetro. Will be held the measurement on the left arm of the individual, remaining at the technical, the member at heart level (level of the midpoint of the sternum or fourth intercostal space), free clothes, supported, with the palm of the hand facing up and the elbow slightly flexed. Respiratory rate before, during, after the application of ear acupuncture, and fifteen days after the end of treatment. Respiratory rate will be measured by palpation of the chest and the count of the thoracic respiratory motion during the period of one minute, using an analog clock. Temperature of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar before, during, after the application of ear acupuncture, and fifteen days after the end of treatment. To evaluate the temperature of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar regions will be images taken by an infrared sensor positioned horizontally at a distance of one meter and forty centimeters and vertically set in the last sacral vertebra volunteer. For this evaluation, the room will be pre-heated at twenty-three degrees Celsius for twenty minutes. The volunteer will wait for fifteen minutes at rest before the image is taken. Each participant will be in the standing position, remaining top and shorts. To obtain thermographic images, the subject will remain on your back with arms at your sides.
Use of drugs to prevent sensitivity of post tooth bleaching
Use of analgesics in preventing sensitivity arising from tooth bleaching
Experimental group: Sixty patients will take an opioid analgesic drug (codeine phosphate30 mg acetaminophen 500mg) 1 hour before the bleaching protocol. Additional doses of  codeine phosphate30 mg acetaminophen 500mg be administered every 6 hours for a period of 48 hours. 

Control group: Sixty participants will take one capsule of placebo (30 mg) 1 hour before the bleaching protocol. Additional doses of placebo will be administered every 6 hours for a period of 48 hours. The placebo will consist of all the excipients of the dexamethasone, except the active principle (codeine phosphate acetaminophen).
Patients older than 18 years are included; with good oral and general health; with free maxillary anterior teeth restorations; do not carious lesion present; that have the color of A2 or darker teeth according to the color scale Classical Vita (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany).
Patients who already underwent tooth whitening, pregnant or lactating patients; who report tooth sensitivity; severe browning (staining tetracycline, fluorosis or endodontics); with parafunctional habits, patients with dental prostheses and appliances Orthodontic and any other oral pathology will be deleted; patients who have systemic symptoms such as problems stomach, heart, kidney and liver, diabetes, hypertension or who are making continuous use of any medication with analgesic action and anti-inflammatory
Expected outcome: Check the number of patients that report spontaneous pain in any moment of the bleaching protocol and up to 48 h post-bleaching, through self-report. This number will be presented as percentage of patients with tooth sensitivity and will be named absolute risk of tooth sensitivity
Expected outcome: The difference in color between the baseline condition and 1 month post-bleaching will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations
Kangaroo and behavior of the preterm infant
Effects of Kangaroo Methods in the neurobehavior of preterm infants
Intervention: Preterm infants exposed to Kangaroo Care in Maternity 
Control: Premature infants not exposed to Kangaroo Care in Maternity
Preterm infants; gestational age between 28 and 32 weeks. 
Congenital malformations; genetic syndromes; inborn errors of metabolism, symptomatic congenital infections
Difference in behavioral scores, assessed by neurobehavioral assessment of neonates undergoing or not the kangaroo method
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Electrical stimulation effect to diminish pain on arm in women undergoing surgery for breast cancer 
Electrical Analgesia Effect On Dysestesia In Women Undergoing To Axillary Linfadenectomy
Was recruited 32 women, aged between 18 and 80 years and randomized into two groups: Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS;)active TENS (treated group n = 16) and placebo TENS (control group n = 16). The patients in the active TENS group underwent 20 sessions, 3x per week on alternate days- parameters: Frequency = 100Hz, pulse width (T) = 100 ms, time (t) = 20 minutes with 1 channel intercostobrachial nerve (ICBN) pathway.
Women TENS placebo group received the same protocol, and the current applied to the same place and the same duration of the active TENS group. The equipment was identical to the TENS active. In this modality, release of electric current only during the first 45 seconds of the application by stopping the transmission of electrical current after this period.
Axillary lymphadenectomy for breast cancer, the presence of changes in skin sensitivity intercostal nerve pathway, ASA I or II; absence of cognitive disorders, hearing and visual
Attendance: skin lesions, active infectious processes; erysipelas; girth greater than 4 cm, breast reconstruction, bilateral mastectomy, neurological diseases, use of certain drugs such as anlagesic and antiinflammatory, use of a cardiac pacemaker; morbid obesity.
After 20 sessions of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS)the dysesthesia caused by intercostobrachial nerve (ICBN)injury  decreased  in women undergoing axillary lymphadenectomy.
The intensity of discomfort in the arm (measured by the Visual Analogue Scale-VAS) ipsilateral decreased significantly after 20 sessions of TENS in TENS group active, but compared with the placebo TENS group, no difference was found. Cutaneous sensitivity (assessed by esthesiometry) and pressure pain threshold (assessed by algometry) did not change after the intervention in either group. The quality of life (as measured by the EORTC QLQ C30 and BR23) is not modified significantly after the treatment in both groups.  
Comparison among two drugs commonly used in the prevention and treatment of thrombosis, to prevent thromboembolism after total cavopulmonary operation.

A comparative study of oral anticoagulants and antiplatelet prophylaxis of thrombosis and thromboembolic events in the Fontan operation using extracardiac conduit.

Thirty patients  undergoing the total cavopulmonary shunt will be divided into two groups: 15 patients will receive oral anticoagulant (warfarin sodium) in group 1 from the first day after surgery, the initial dose of 0.2 mg / kg / d, adjusted according to  international normalized ratio (INR) desired 2.0 to 3.0, to complete 24 months of follow-up, and 15 patients receive antiplatelet (aspirin) in group 2 for the same period at a dose 10 mg / kg / d. In patients weighing more than 10kg at a dose of 100mg/day. Patients will be evaluated at six specific times: preoperative (time 1), the immediate postoperative period (time 2), three months after surgery (time 3), six months after surgery (time 4), 12 months postoperatively (now 5) and 24 months postoperatively (now 6).

Scheduling total cavopulmonary operation according to the clinical criteria for surgery.
 Parents o
Patients with contraindications to receive any of the medications (sodium warfarin or aspirin)

Absence of thrombosis inside of the extra-cardíac conduit, diagnosed by transesophageal echocardiography: analyzed by one examiner to assess the absence of thrombus imaging in light of extra-cardiac conduit. Absence of thrombosis inside of the extra-cardíac conduit diagnosed by CT angiography: acquisition with only carried out by one examiner with contrast, evaluating the absence of thrombus in the lumen or adhered to the wall of the extra-cardíac conduit.
Absence of subclinical thromboembolism diagnosed by scintigraphy ventilation-perfusion, assessed by one examiner. The interpretation criteria follow the standardization scheme Nuclear Medicine Service of the Heart Hospital of Syrian Sanatorium Association, according to guidelines established by prospective investigation of pulmonary embolism diagnosis (PIOPED)
 Effect of passion fruit
The effect of passion fruit
Experimental group: Thirty people with type 2 diabetes will receive packages with 12 laws of passion fruit
Being person with type 2 diabetes; between 18 and 65 years old; both sex; no problems in liver or kidney; Not be allergic to passion
fruit.
Being patient with type 1 diabetes; smoker; alcohol drinker; pregnant women

The decrease in mean blood glucose levels within eight weeks following the intervention obtained a variation of less than 1%.
The decrease in body weight obtained a variation of less than five kilograms after the intervention (0.5 kilograms)
Low sugar diet combined with nasal administration of perillyl alcohol: strategy therapy for resistant Glioblastoma Multiforme  to chemotherapy and radiotherapy
Ketogenic diet combined with intranasal administration of perillyl alcohol: strategy therapy to refractory Glioblastoma Multiforme  to standard treatment
Group 1 (intervention), 15 patients, will be made anthropometric measurements, biochemical tests, MRI,  demographic and social data will be collected and ketogenic diet will be offered. They will be followed for two months and than they will repeat biochemical and MRI.


Group 2 (control), 15 patients, will be made anthropometric measurements, biochemical tests , MRI,  demographic and social data will be collected and nutrition information will be offered. They will be followed for two months and than they will repeat biochemical and MRI.
Men and women with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme; aged 20 to 65; standard therapy (chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy); inhalating perillyl alcohol.
Patients with neurological complications; terminal phase; discontinue diet.
Comparison of tumor growth by anterior cerebral magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after 3 months of combined therapy with inhalation of perillil alcohol and ketogenic diet.
Changes in body composition checked by anthropometric measurements before and after dietotherapeutic intervention.
Effects of mate tea consumption on muscle strength recovery and indicators of inflammation and damage caused by free radicals after exercise
Effects of mate tea (ilex paraguariensis) consumption on muscle strength and concentration of inflammatory and oxidative stress markers after eccentric exercise 
Participants will drink 200 mL of mate tea (n=11) or water (control) (n=11), 3 times a day for 11 days, in the morning, afternoon, and evening. Each subject will receive a package containing 50 g of lyophilized mate extract. The mate tea must be prepared by diluting 1 g of lyophilized mate extract in 200 mL of cold water (5 mg / ml).
In the morning of the 8th day of treatments with mate tea or control, the volunteers will perform a protocol of exercise with one arm specifically designed to induce muscle damage (i.e. three sets of 20 maximal eccentric elbow flexion exercises). A maximal isometric strength test will be performed before, immediately after, and 24 (day 9), 48 h (day 10), and 72 h (day 11) after eccentric exercise protocol.
Healthy male, 19 to 30 years old; physically active.
Athletes; participation in formalized resistance or aerobic training programs in the previous three months preceding the study; smoking; having any disease, infection, or inflammatory processes; history of upper limb injury; and using any medication, ergogenic aids, herbal supplements, or vitamin/mineral supplements.  
Improvement in the rate of muscle recovery, determined by measuring the maximal elbow flexion strength (N.m) immediately after and 24, 48, and, 72 h after eccentric exercise
Increase in blood reduced glutathione concentration (umol/g Hb)
A clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Ambrisentan on Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension in patients aged 8 years up to 18 years
AMB112529 - A randomized, open label study comparing safety and efficacy parameters for a high and a low dose of Ambrisentan (adjusted for body weight) for the treatment of Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension in paediatric patients aged 8 years up to 18 years
Arm 1: 33 patients on low dose group receiving Ambrisentan, dose 2.5mg to 5mg once daily according to body weight, for at least 24 weeks

Arm 2: 33 patients on high dose group receiving Ambrisentan, dose 5mg to 10mg once daily according to body weight, for at least 24 weeks
66 Volunteers with diagnosis of Persistent  Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension;  Male or female; at least 8 years of age and not yet 18 years of age 

Volunteers currently taking an endothelin receptor antagonist or cyclosporine A and whose body weight is less than 20 Kg

To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Ambrisentan in the proposed paediatric Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension population
Obtain supportive efficacy dataon the paediatric use of Ambrisentan in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension
Pilates and Global Postural Reeducation to school children.
Comparative study of Mat Pilates and Global Postural Reeducation protocol on postural alignment and functional capacity of school children.
Control group: random allocation, 27 school children will be assessed in the first week and re-evaluated at 11 weeks without going through intervention. After this participation in this group, these children may participate in the intervention groups.
Group Mat Pilates: random allocation, 27 school children will be evaluated and after the intervention for 10 weeks with Mat Pilates exercises using exercise mat and balls, 1x per week, lasting 50 minutes, will be reevaluated. The exercises are those that strengthen the abdominal and paraspinal muscles, the mobility of the spine and stretching of muscle chains and evolve into trunk and balance exercises.
Children with good cognition; with aged 4-8 years.
Children with previous orthopedic surgery; cardiac, respiratory or psychological conditions that compromise the implementation of the study.
The primary clinical outcomes will be 10% increase in postural alignment and functional capacity. For postural alignment, baropodometry will be used and the functional capacity will be used walk test of 6 min, Timed Up and Go and horizontal jump. Measure 1 will be made at baseline and measure 2 after 10 weeks.  
10% increase in foot load distribution, balance, functional mobility and distance from the horizontal jump and 10% reduction in energy expenditure rate.  For the distribution of foot load, baropodometry will be used, to balance will be used the stabilometry, for functional mobility will be used time sitting and standing. For the distance of the horizontal jump, the Jump test will be used. But the energy expenditure index will be calculated by the 6-min walk test.
Relaxing effect on sleep quality, depression and stress in people with multiple sclerosis
Progressive muscle relaxation effect on sleep quality , depression and stress in people with multile sclerosis
Intervention group: 20 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis receive five sessions of Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR) under the supervision of a researcher in neurology clinic. Before and after each session of the RMP
They will be measured heart rate, respiratory rate and blood pressure. Participants will be guided
Having diagnosis of MS for at least 6 months, having been diagnosed with relapsing-remitting MS; They are receiving treatment with an immunomodulator; have
Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) less than or equal to 5.0; Aged between 18 and 65; have not had any outbreaks during the
Being hospitalized at the time of data collection or outbreak at the time of data collection; have physical and / or mental changes that prevent the collection of data, such as motor or cognitive deficits; Continuous use of psychotropic medications (eg, antidepressants,
benzodiazepines, antipsychotics or other stimulants); make use of complementary health practices (eg, yoga, pilates, meditation, psychotherapy, reik, relaxation).
The results of this study show that the intervention Progressive Muscle Relaxation was effective in reducing the level of stress in the sample studied since it was observed significant decrease in the instrument's score used (PSS10). Randomized controlled trials with larger sample should be done so that these data are confirmed. According to these findings, the intervention Progressive Muscle Relaxation can be considered an important tool in the treatment of stress in people with MS.
The results of this study show that the intervention Progressive Muscle Relaxation was effective in improving sleep quality in this sample as it was observed significant decrease of the used instrument score (PSQI), indicating that there was an improvement in the quality of sleep in individuals evaluated. Randomized controlled trials with larger sample should be performed so that these data are confirmed. According to these findings, the intervention Progressive Muscle Relaxation can be an affordable and effective practice to improve the quality of sleep in people with MS.
Treatment of Anal and Perianal Condyloma Using Argon Plasma and Electrofulguration in HIV Positive and Negative Patients.
Treatment of Anal and Perianal Condyloma Using Argon Plasma and Electrofulguration in HIV Positive and Negative Patients.
Intervention group: 37 patients who underwent the application of argon plasma, until the signs of condylomatous injury were eliminated in an area bounded by a semicircle in anal and perianal region, ie each patient receives both treatments and is control of himself ; reexamined monthly for six months and made adjuvant operation as required oriented by Proctologic exame.

Control Group: 37 patients treated with electrofulguration until signs of condylomatous lesions were eliminated in an area bounded by a semicircle in anal and perianal region, in the semicircle distinct from the one where the argon plasma was applied; reexamined monthly for six months and made adjuvant operation as required oriented Proctologic exame.
Patients older than 18 years were included ; presence of anal HPV , perianal or both , regardless of whether or not they would have been subjected to prior treatment .
We did not include patients with unilateral condylomatous injury or too large for treatment on an outpatient basis and those who did not agree to participate.
  The analysis of the number of relapses in relation to application of argon and electrofulguration showed no significant difference with a p-value greater than 0.05.  
After applying the Chi-squared tests asymptotic and exact a 0.05 significance level we find that the number of recurrences in the areas treated with electrofulguration in HIV positive patients was significantly higher with a p value of 0.01.
Effects of exercise in postmenopausal women
Impact of exercise on risk factors in overweight and obese postmenopausal women
The sample consists of seventy (70) women aged 50-79 years postmenopausal (no menstruation for at least twelve months), obese (body fat percentage
We included 70 women aged 50-79 years; postmenopausal (no period for at least twelve months); obese (fat percentage
Introduced during the intervention health problems that limit or prevent the implementation of the exercise program; anyone associated with inflammatory responses such as influenza; diseases; recent surgical procedures; and acute arthritis condition; less than 65% frequency in the proposed interventions; not accomplish all assessment procedures.
IL-6 levels showed a significant reduction in both groups, control (3.41 ± 1.8 vs 2.41 ± 0.8; p = 0.006 *) and intervention (4.04 ± 2.6 vs 2 68 ± 1.0; p = 0.010). It was observed significant interaction between group and time of intervention (p = 0.546) after 20 weeks. The concentration of IL-6 was determined by an immunoenzymatic ELISA Kit (BD Biosciences) at 2.2 pg / ml detection limit. To analyze the effects of the intervention on the IL-6 concentrations between the groups the ANOVA test was used for repeated measures (Split Plot), and adopted a 5% significance level. significance of 5%.
The IL-10 concentrations were significantly reduced in both groups, intervention (10.68 ± 3.6 vs 8.32 ± 2.4; p = 0.006) and control (14.27 ± 4.6 vs 8.78 ± 2.2; p = 0.0001). However it was observed significant interaction between group and time of intervention on the IL-10 levels (p = 0.015) after 20 weeks, indicating that the intervention group had lower magnitude reductions. The TNF-alpha concentrations were significantly reduced only in the intervention group (7.55 ± 5.0 vs 4.82 ± 3.6; p = 0.001), without significant changes in the control group (7.21 ± 5.3 vs 5.91 ± 5.8; p = 0.185). It was observed significant interaction between group and time of intervention on the TNF-alpha levels (p = 0.238) after 20 weeks. The concentration of TNF-alpha and IL-10 were determined by an immunoenzymatic ELISA Kit (BD Biosciences) with 2.0 pg / ml detection limit. To analyze the effects of the intervention on the concentrations of TNF-alpha and IL-10 between the groups the ANOVA test was used for repeated measures (Split Plot), and adopted a 5% significance level. significance of 5% ..
Effect of different kinds of physical training (aerobic, resistance and concurrent) on vascular function and blood pressure in hypertensive individuals
Physical Training Effect on Endothelial Function and Blood Pressure in Hypertensive Patients: Randomized Clinical Trial
The sample size for the development of the study was set at n = 81 patients with hypertension that will be randomly drawn into three exercise groups. After the enrollment of individuals in groups, the battery of tests will be performed, and the subjects will be randomized to the groups: (n = 27) aerobic training group (GTA), (n = 27) resistance training group (GTR) and (n = 27) concurrent training group (GTC).
The intervention will consist of 12 weeks of physical training with sessions lasting an average of 60 minutes at a frequency of three times a week. Exercise sessions will consist of an initial part to perform warm-up exercises articulate lasting 10 minutes. The GTA will hold 40 minutes of exercise on a cycle ergometer at an intensity of 50 to 65% of heart rate reserve. The GTR will hold a sequence of six weight training exercises (leg press, bench press, knee extension, biceps curls, knee flexion and low rowing) four series, with a number of repetitions ranging 12-6 at an intensity 60% to 80% of 1RM respectively. The intervals between the series will be between 60 to 90 seconds. The training will GTC into two parts of 20 minutes. The first 20 minutes are composed of the same exercises of resistance training protocol, however, will only make two sets of each exercise, and the other 20 minutes, carry out aerobic training cicloergômentro. In total the volume of both training sessions will be 40 minutes. The final part of the session will consist of stretching and relaxation exercises lasting about 10 minutes.
Patients aged between 18 and 75 years; diagnosed with hypertension; not participate in any kind of systematic physical activity; be ranked among insufficiently active, as IPAQ; signing the consent form; not present hyperreactivity during the test the physical tests (SBP
Patients outside the age range of 18 to 75 years; without diagnosis of hypertension; be participating in some kind of systematic physical activity; not sign the Instrument of Consent; hyperreactivity present during the test the physical tests, presenting fever and / or infectious disease as well as diabetes mellitus; class II obesity or having more than 35 kg / m2; present heart failure class III or IV; cardiovascular event in the last 3 months; chronic renal failure; history of malignant disease with a life expectancy 
Improved endothelial function, determined by flow-mediated brachial artery (FMD), using an ultrasound (with software for vascular-dimensional images (2D) color and spectral Doppler with an internal monitor electrocardiogram (ECG) and a vascular high frequency transducer. the coefficient of variation expected between images is 1.8 to 5%. the dependent vasodilation flow are expressed as percentage change in diameter of the brachial, and the expected normal values 10-20% in pre and post intervention 12 weeks of aerobic training, resistance and combined measurements (aerobic + resistance).
- Reduced Blood Pressure measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) 4 mmHg for systolic and 2 mmHg for diastolic blood pressure, using the Dina-Map+ branded device +, oscilométriconas method in pre measurements and after 12 intervention weeks of exercise training, weathered and combined (aerobic + resistance). - Improvement in plasma levels of total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides and fasting glucose, measured by biochemical tests 10% pre and post intervention. - Improvement in functional capacity, measured by maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max), from 10% pre and post intervention 12 weeks of aerobic training, resistance and combined (aerobic + resistance). - Increased maximum dynamic strength and muscular endurance as measured by the maximum repetition test 10% pre and post intervention 12 weeks of aerobic training, resistance and combined (aerobic + resistance). 
An Efficacy and Safety Study of JNJ- 56021927 (ARN-509) in High-risk Prostate Cancer Subjects Receiving Primary Radiation Therapy
56021927PCR3003 - A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebocontrolled Phase 3 Study of JNJ- 56021927 in Subjects with High-risk, Localized or Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer Receiving Treatment with Primary Radiation Therapy
JNJ-56021927 group: 750 Participants will receive JNJ- 56021927 (240 mg) daily, by mouth for 28 months plus bicalutamide placebo by mouth, once daily, for four months from randomization. All participants are treated with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH - agonist) for 28 months from randomization and radiation therapy to the prostate started at about 8 weeks after randomization.
Control group; 750 participants: Participants will receive bicalutamide 50 mg, by mouth, once daily, for 4 months plus JNJ-56021927 placebo once daily for 28 months from randomization. All participants are treated with GnRH (agonist) for 28 months from randomization and radiation therapy to the prostate started at about 8 weeks after randomization.
Inclusion Criteria:Age 
Exclusion Criteria:Presence of distant metastasis, including pelvic nodal disease below the iliac bifurcation 
Metastasis-free survival - Metastasis-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first occurrence of radiographic bone metastasis or distant metastasis to soft tissue by BICR, eventual pathological distant metastasis or death from any cause found, whichever comes first.
Overall Survival (OS); Defined as the time from randomization to the date of death from any cause
Complementary Therapies for stress and anxiety reduction and improving quality of life
Applicability of Complementary Therapies for pain, stress, anxiety reduction
and improving quality of life: Randomized Clinical Trial
1. Massage+Rest Intervention Group: 30 outpatients of the Oriental and Integrated Therapy Institute will receive 20 minutes of Anma massage and 10 minutes of rest
2.  Massage+Reiki Intervention Group: 30 outpatient clients of Oriental and Integrated Therapy Institute will receive 20 minutes of Anma massage and 10 minutes of Reiki
Inclusion Criteria: The patients with  medium and high level of stress score on the Stress Symptoms List (LSS) 

Exclusion Criteria: pregnant women; subjects who go on vacation or sick leave during the research period; those who begin to use allopathic medicines for anxiety and antidepressant or other energy therapies to manage stress and anxiety. 
Anxiety reduction  Application pre and post treatment of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory  Analysis based on variation of the average pre and post intervention with a significance level of 5% (p <0.05).
Improvement of the physical and mental aspects of quality of life (SF12v2) Applicatoin pre and post treatment of the Quality of Life Questionnaire (SF12v2) Analysis based on variation of the average pre and post intervention with a significance level of 5% (p <0.05).
Effect of Strength Training on the activation Myoelectric Respiratory, Structure Diaphragmatic, Pulmonary Function and Quality of Life in individuals with Heart Failure
Effect of Strength Training on the Activation Myoelectric Respiratory, Structure Diaphragmatic, Pulmonary Function and Quality of Life in individuals with Heart Failure
Group Intervention: 10 patients follow a program with 3 sessions per week supervised resistance training with 45 minutes duration for 12 weeks, including; Control group: 10 patients will be followed for 12 weeks did not undergo intervention of resistance training program, but will be monitored every two weeks by researchers to nutritional assessment and will be submitted to the experimental protocol at the end of the research. Evaluations, in a total of two pre-intervention and after 12 weeks, will consist of the following assessments: ultrasound mobility and thickness of the diaphragm, anthropometric measurements,  maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressure tests, pulmonary function, electromyographic evaluation of respiratory muscles, hand dynamometer, test of a maximum repetition, ergospirometric assessment, six-minute walk test and nutritional assessment, and quality of life (Minnesota Questionnaire)
Patients must have a diagnosis of heart failure for at least six months; not have been admitted in two months; diagnosed as functional classes I, II, III, Second NYHA; left ventricular ejection fraction at rest 
Patients with worsening exercise tolerance or HF symptoms during the last 3-5 days; incapacidade de compreender ou realizar os exercícios; increase in body weight within 24 hours more than one kilogram; significant exercise-induced ischemia; present atrial fibrillation; decreased blood pressure
Increased thickness of the diaphragm after the intervention of resistance training. To evaluate the thickness of the diaphragm will use an ultrasound apparatus. The expected outcome is evidenced by a variation of at least 5% in each evaluation used pre and post intervention
Increasing maximal expiratory and inspiratory pressure, evaluated by analog manometer, considered a variation of at least 5% in pre and post-intervention measurements
Impact of Intervention Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension(dash) in Hypertension and Nutritional Status of Patients Monitored in Primary Health
Impact of Intervention Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension(dash) in Hypertension and Nutritional Status of Patients Monitored in Primary Health
Experimental group will perform nutritional assessment, measurement of blood pressure at every visit, for a period of 6 months, biochemical tests at 1 and 6 months and assessment of food intake (1º, 3º and 6º months). They will receive individualized nutritional guidance based on the principles of the study dash, although adapted to local realities, respecting the local diet habits during the intervention period and will be conducted educational lectures on healthy eating. The control group will receive the same actions, except for nutritional guidance that will be held at the end of the study.
Hypertension enrolled in the program HIPERDIA Ministry of Health and regular monitoring in primary health care unit.
Pregnant, patients with chronic kidney disease and Renal Replacement Therapy and chronic illnesses comsuptiva.
Reduction in BMI by 10%.
Reduction of sodium intake.
Effects of exercise training on the human body
Time-course of organic adaptations in response to exercise training in aging
We will have two intervention groups: the physical training group(n:20)  and the control group(n:20). The training group will perform 16 weeks of combined training (strength training plus aerobic training in the same session), three times a week. The protocol will consist of eight exercises for the major muscle groups (knee extension, knee flexion, leg press, bench press, pulldowns, elbow flexion, elbow extension and abdominal), a number for each exercise 10-15 repetitions in moderate (5 to 6 in the subjective perception scale from 0 to 10); followed by continuous walking and/or running from 40% to 60% of VO2 reserve for 50min. All training sessions will be held in the Integrated Laboratory of the Faculty of Physical Education, UNICAMP (LabFEF). The control group will not receive any treatment, They only will go to the research laboratory one week a month to make the same assessments to be carried out with the training group (as described in item outcomes) along 16 weeks.
Individuals from both sexes; non-active (frequency of regular physical activity less than two sessions per week); Did not participate in any regular training program over the last 6 months preceding the beginning of the experiment; to be normotensive, or grade 1 (systolic blood pressure: 140 to 149 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure: 90 to 99 mmHg), or 2 (systolic blood pressure 160 to 169 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure: 100 to 109 mmHg) of controlled hypertension (according to the medical report of the participants);  have clinical evaluation report carried out by a physician (general physical examination, cardiological and clinical exercise testing) authorizing the practice of physical activity.
Obesity greater than grade 2 (body mass index up to 35); coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus insulin-dependent; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; limiting osteoarticular disease; peripheral vascular disease; smokers; in use of medications that may interfere with physiological responses to tests, such as beta-blockers.
The outcomes will be considered effective if it was observed an interaction between group and time (any moment measured compared to pre intervention moment) with p-value smaller than 0.05. Blood pressure, in mmHg, measured by finger photopletismography (Finometer). 
Blood pressure variability analysed at Cardioseries Softare,by the standar deviation of the mean of five minutes recording, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Cardiac autonomic modulation measured by heart rate record in heart rate monitor (POLAR) and analysis of heart rate variability using specific software (Kubios), with time (RRi, RMSSD e SDNN, in ms, and pNN50, in %) and frequency (LF, HF, VLF, LF/HF, TP, in ms2 and n.u.) domain data, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Analysis of the following blood markers: interleukins (IL-6 and IL-10, in pg/ml), adipokines (Adiponectin, in  µg/mL, and leptina, in ng/mL), tumor necrosis factor alfa (pg/ml), C-reactive protein (mg/L), oxidative stress markers (TBARS, in  nmol/ml, e total oxidant capacity, in mmol ET/L), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (pg/ml), vascular endothelial growth factor (pg/ml), profile lipid (TG, CT, HDL, LDL, in mg/dL), glucose (mg/dL), insulin (µIU/ml), and tissue remodeling markers as extracellular matrix metalloproteinases 9 (pg/ml) and  tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1(pg/ml). Evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Body composition, including overall fat mass and overall lean body mass percent, measured in plethysmograph (BOD POD) and thickness of the vastus lateralis and biceps measuredby ultrasound (Nano-Max Sleep Site), in mm, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Maximum strength of the lower limbs measured in isokinetic dynamometer (BIODEX), through rate force development, in ms, before, after 8 and 16 weeks of intervention. Aerobic capacity measured by gas analysis (CPX Medical Graphics) during maximal exercise test on treadmill, generating the maximamum oxygen consumption, in ml/Kg/min., evaluated before, after 8 and 16 weeks of intervention. Electrical activity, of the vastus and lateral. measured by electromyography (Biopac System), evaluated before, after 8 and 16 weeks of intervention. Assessment of functional capacity through the tests: balance (Berg Scale), sitting and rising from a chair(number of repetitions in 30s), walking speed (TUG-Timed Up and Go) and flexibility (in cm in bank Wells). Before and after intervention period. Frailty evaluation through the tests: self-report of unintentional weight loss (em Kg), fatigue self-report, handgrip dynamometer (Lafayette Instruments) and level of physical activity questionnaire (MLTPAQ). Before and after intervention period. Cognitive function through Stroop test (time to answer and numbr of right answers) and mini mental state examination (score). Before and after intervention period. Renal function as measured by serum creatinine concentration.Before and after intervention period. Ankle brachial index (ratio between legs and arms systolic blood pressure), measured by doppler vascular and sphygmomanometer, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Carotid artery structure and function measured by ultrasound (Nano-Max Sleep Site),in mm and in mm/mmHg, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Central and peripheral arterial stiffness measured by applanation tonometers (Sphygmocor), in velocity (delta of time/distance), evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Endothelial function measured by ultrasound (Nano-Max Sono website) before the following partial obstruction of flow-induced sphygmomanometer, evaluated monthly along 16 weeks. Quality of life assessment by questionnaire (WHOQOL-BREF and SF-36) and the Geriatric Depression Scale. Before and after intervention period.
Evaluation of DNA damage in anesthesiologists
Damage assessment in the genetic material in anesthesiologists
Experimental group: 30 medical occupationally exposed to residues of inhaled anesthetics.
Control group: 30 medical nonexposed waste of inhaled anesthetics.
Anesthesiologists to compose the exposed group medical and clinical settings to compose the control group; healthy volunteers; both genders; non-smoking; age between 23 to 75 years.
Malignants diseases; infectious diseases; inflammatory diseases; alcohol consumption; use of tobacco; illicit drug use; use of medications; use of vitamin supplementation; radiation exposure.
It is expected to find increased DNA damage in the exposed group of participants through the comet assay in lymphocytes analyzed by fluorescence microscopy images with the aid of a software capable of detecting the intensity of the tail, and the higher the tail damage . Increase of cytogenetic damage in the DNA of the exposed participants are also expected by the micronucleus test in the oral mucosa cells, assessed by light microscopy and determined by the presence of micronuclei and nuclear buds by manual counting. The results from both tests are comparative between the exposed and control groups for significant difference check.
Are not expected.
Impact of a Program of Subaquatic Therapeutic Exercises in Elderly Women with Knee Osteoarthritis
Impact of a Structured Program of Subaquatic Therapeutic Exercises in Elderly Women with Knee Osteoarthritis
This is a randomized clinical trial randomly by computer program. 73 volunteers were grouped into 2 arms of the study, 37 in intervention group (acquatic physiotherapy, 50 minutes, 2 times a week ) and 36 in the control group (educational protocol, for 6 weeks). No one placebo control group was recruited. Muscular performace of quadriceps  and hamstring muscles was assessed using isokinetic dynamometer. Pain, stiffness and physical function by Westerm Ontário and McMaster Universities (WOMAC) questionnaire. 
Elderly aged over 65 years. Diagnosis (clinical and radiological)of knee osteoarthritis. Not undergoing surgery. No history of recent trauma on the knee.  Accessory independent for locomotion. Not subjected to physical therapy in the last three months. With conditions to perform clinical and cognitive activity in the pool. Continents and without contagious dermatological diseases.
Absence of a clinical and radiological diagnosis of knee osteoarthritis.
Results: Pain: the intervention group has shown improvements in pain (p=0.008) compared to group control. Physical Function: the intervention group has shown improvements in physical function (p=0.004) compared to group control. Conclusions: The Structured Program of Subaquatic Therapeutic Exercises studied resulted in significant improvement of pain and physical function in elderly women with knee osteoarthritis.
Results: Muscle performance: the intervention group has shown improvements in strength and power of hamstrings (p=0.005 and p=0.001) compared to group control. There were no significant differences between groups for strength, power and endurance of the quadriceps. Conclusion: The Structured Program of Subaquatic Therapeutic Exercises studied resulted in significant improvement of strength and power of hamstrings in elderly women with knee osteoarthritis.
Physical activity and healthy in elderly.
Resistance and concurrent training with blood flow restriction: hearat rate variability, systemic inflammation effects and neuromuscular adjustments in men and women.
The aim of this study was verify the cardiovascular healthy by the autonomic adaptations to 12 weeks of different training models, therefore before and post the training period the heart rate variability was evaluation and the Maximum dynamic strength test (1-RM) and Peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak), besides these, were also assessed at mid-point (i. e. after 6 weeks of intervention) to adjust the training load. The volunteers were randomized into six groups: control group (CG, n = 11, 66.2±4.0 years, weight=67.2±15.0 kg, height=1.58±0.1m), aerobic training (AT, n= 7, 66.8± 5.0 years, weight=67.4±9.0 kg, height=1.61±0.1m), high-intensity resistance training (RT-HI, n = 12, 62 ± 4.5 years, weight=67.8±14.9 kg, height=1.59±0.1m),  low-intensity resistance training with blood flow restriction (RT-BFR, n = 09, 64 ± 3 years, weight=77.0±18.0 kg, height=1.68±0.0m), combined training (CT, n=11, 64.1 ± 3.4 years, weight=68.5±7.3 kg, height=1.65±0.0m) and combined training with blood flow restriction (CT-BFR, n=11, 64.1 ± 3.4 years, weight=71.9±10.2 kg, height=1.64±0.0m). The CG was instructed to remain throughout the experimental period without doing any physical training. 
Aerobic training (AT): Individuals either walked or ran for 40 min at intensities varying from 60 to 85 % VO2peak (between Ventilatory Threshold and Respiratory Compensation Point) throughout the training period. After 6 weeks of training, the volume was increased to 50 min.
Volunteers irregularly active or sedentary; both sexes; over 60 years old; non smokers.
Manifestation of ischemic myocardial disease; diabetes; arrhythmias; hypertension; use of medications for the mentioned diseases; joint limitations.
For statistical analysis, visual inspection techniques and the Shapiro-Wilk test for the presence of outliers and normality of the data. After we applied a mixed model having group (two levels) and time (two levels) as fixed factors and subjects as random factor for each dependent variable. In the event of significant F ratio values, we used a Tukey adjustment for multiple comparisons, and effect. The significance value was P <0.05 and the statistical package used was the SAS 9.3 for Windows. Despite our initial hypothesis the results showed no changes of variables after the intervention period.
After statistical analysis described in primary outcomes as expected were improved strength to the training already specified and the variable VO2 there was no improvement in the aerobic training group.
Evaluation of anesthesia in cardiac surgery patients
Evaluation of the analgesic efficacy of general  and spinal anesthesia with morphine associated ropivacaine in patients who underwent surgery type coronary artery bypass grafting
In the experimental group, composed of 30 subjects, subarachnoid puncture is performed with patient in sitting position, after infiltration before skin and subcutaneous tissue with lidocaine 2% without epinephrine, 3 to 5 ml. After the puncture, held-to spinal median L3 or L4, needle number 25 to 27, the first morphine injection at a dose of 400mg; second injection of 0.6 ml ropivacaine, 0.5% hyperbaric with 3ml doubly distilled water. After 15 minutes, it will elevate the lower limbs. Then begins the induction of general anesthesia with Diprivan A (diprifusor) of 40mg/ml, sulfetanil and pancuronium 0.1 mg / kp, maintenance diprivam around 20 to 40 mg / ml and muscle relaxation with pancuronium 0.1 mg / kg 1 / 1 hour with 25% of the initial dose, followed by tracheal intubation with low-volume cuff and low pressure. Positioning of the tracheal tube is confirmed by auscultation and capnography in the presence of wave.
In the active control group, composed of 28 subjects, will perform general anesthesia alone, following the same pattern as the experimental group without spinal puncture.
Assessment of the physical status;
Anesthetic risk classification according to the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) ASA II and III;
Manifestation of the patient and / or guardian
Improves the quality of painmeasured by the McGill pain scale that assesses the painful experience in the dimensions: sensory, affective and evaluative and is based on words that patients select to describe their pain. Reduction of the location of pain, measured by direct question to the respondent.
Reduced time to wake analyzed by checking the record time in the patient. Increased time for the request of analgesic analyzed by checking the record time in the patient. Absence or diminution of thoracic drains analyzed by visualization after the intervention. Absence or reduction of hyperemia before removal of drains by viewing the time of chest removal of the drain. Reduction of pain intensity in the removal of drains, measured by visual analog scale. Decrease in analgesic consumption measured by the amount of drugs consumed by the patient
Evaluation of phone calls in promoting self-care in Diabetes
Evaluation of monitoring telephone in promoting self-care in Diabetes in primary health

Experimental group: 106 users with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 received fortnightly telephone interventions for the promotion of self-care, associated with the individual services offered by linked health center, during the period from February to August 2012. Control group: 104 users with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 were given individual assistance offered by linked health center and educational booklet provided by the researcher.
To measure such outcome before starting the study (T0) and 3 (T3) and 6 (T6) months after the telephone intervention, we used the Questionnaire of Self-care in Diabetes (ESM), which has has eight total score points. To show that the user has improved the practice of self-care, it is necessary a minimum score of 4.0 points.
Members diagnosed with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus; have between 30 and 80 years; own mobile phone or fixed line.
Members diagnosed with Type I Diabetes; not answer calls for more than five consecutive attempts made; users with psychiatric disorders or complications of the disease which adversely affects the ability to answer the questionnaire of self-care; users who have moved.
The average scores of the questionnaire of Self-care in Diabetes (ESM) showed that the experimental group showed a gradual improvement in the course of time T0, T3 and T6, being respectively 3.52 ± 0.71, 5.20 ± 0.94 and 5.53 ± 0.80. As for the control group at the same times, shows an improvement of the average score from T0 to T3 (3.55 ± 0.76 to 4.34 ± 1.10), however, the T3 to the T6 there was a decrease in the average score of the same group (4.10 ± 1.18). With 95% confidence, the average effect in the Experimental group was 1.03 to 1.78 points greater than in the control group.
For the secondary outcome analysis data were collected from number of call attempts as well as their duration, during both cycles of the study.  The control group maintained an average of approximately 6 minutes of duration of telephone calls and the average number of attempts the next 2 times compared the 2 cycles (1 cycle = 1.84 ± 1.18 and 2nd cycle = 1.83 ± 1.32). For GE, the contact time during the calls in the 1st cycle was 12.56 (± 4.67) minutes and in the 2nd cycle of 12.04 (± 6.31) minutes. The number of retries of connections was approximately 2 times in both cycles (1 cycle = 2.15 ± 1.44 and 2nd cycle = 2.20 ± 1.64).
Effect of mirror therapy in upper limb of young individuals with cerebral palsy and cerebral vascular accident

Effects of mirror therapy in upper limbs of young individuals with hemiparesis

The intervention protocol was composed by a serie of 10 exercises, with 10 repetitions of each exercise, performed 5 times a week, for 8 consecutives weeks. The exercises were composed by flexion and extension elbow movements, pronation and supination of the forearm, to draw a circle on the table with the ulnar border of the hand, wrist circumduction with flexed elbow, flexion and extension of all fingers together, opposition of fingers in sequence, flexion and extension of fingers in sequence and cylindrical and spherical prehension. (hold a glass, hold a ball) and fine pincer grasp (hold a pencil).  

Each subject performed the protocol at your home, and for this they received standardized materials like: a handbook containing the explanation of the exercises, a mirror of 70x30cm, a glass, a pencil, a ball and a diary, to write down the exercises accomplished.
Dysfunctional diagnosis of hemiparesis with brachial predominance; 
Medical diagnosis of Cerebral Palsy or Cerebral Vascular Accident, of prenatal or perinatal etiology; 
Visual and/or hearing impairment;
Mental deficiency; 
Improvement in the aspects evaluated by Fugl-Meyer Scale (motor function of the affected upper limb) and the Functional Independence Measure (functional ability in the activities of daily living), after 8 weeks of intervention with the mirror therapy.
Improvement the correlation between the two scales, evaluated by before and after the tratament evaluation of the Pearson correlation test. 
Physical therapy on quality of life in patients with Urinary Incontinence

The influence of physiotherapy intervention on quality of life in patients with urinary incontinence
 In the intervention will be carried out up to 15 sessions (once a week) and transvaginal electrical stimulation using perineal exercises.
Exercise will be undertaken bridge associated with the contraction of the perineum with the patient positioned supine. Will be two sets of ten repetitions of slow sustained contraction for five seconds and fast-twitch;
Female subjects with a medical diagnosis of urinary incontinence will be included. They will be referred from the Urogynecology outpatient
There will be excluded women that  during the study period perform any additional physical therapy, or initiate any kind of structured and planned physical activity in addition to those provided in the protocol, those with medical conditions that promote disability other than the urinary incontinence, such as severe lung disease, neurological diseases, malignancies, severe cardiac disease or those who have undergone surgery for urinary incontinence.
Depression: General Hospital Depression Scale (score equal or greater than 3 suggestive of depression) and a self-perception question on depression "Do you feel depressed?", answered with yes or no
Medical diagnosis: type of urinary incontinence (stress, urge or mixed)
Effect of an exercise program on cardiopulmonary function and quality of life in patients after gastric bypass surgery
Impact of an exercise program on cardiopulmonary function, functional capacity and quality of life in patients undergoing Bariatric Surgery
Participants will be part of the control group (CG ) n = 12 will receive general guidance regarding the importance of physical activity through educational booklets and brochures. As the patients in the experimental group (EG) n = 12 receive physiotherapy care through an exercise program involving strength and aerobic training , beginning one month after surgery, within 48 hours of the tests for the second evaluation point. The sessions will be conducted individually with supervision of a physiotherapist in the premises of HUOL (room cardiopulmonary rehabilitation). During the training sessions, all patients will be monitored for heart rate using a polar and blood pressure will be obtained at the beginning and end of each session. The protocol provided for GE follows:
Patients will carry out the protocol three times per week for 20 weeks (60 sessions), where each training session will last 75 minutes , including: 1) stretching of the upper and lower + education regarding the correct use of diaphragmatic breathing (5 minutes ), 2) heating cardiovascular treadmill with speed 3km /h (5 minutes) 3) aerobic workout (40 minutes) performed at intervals; 4) muscle strength training (20 minutes) 5) ultimate stretching (5 minutes) the same held in the beginning. Aerobic Training: will be divided into four stages of 10 minutes. Phase 1: consists of pedaling on the exercise bike with exercise intensity set at 60 % of heart rate reserve (defined as the difference between maximum heart rate and resting heart rate) . Phase 2: similar to phase 1 however an increase in exercise intensity (75% heart rate reserve). Step 3: treadmill walking with exercise intensity set at 60 % of heart rate reserve. Phase 4: similar to stage 3 but with increasing exercise intensity to 75% of heart rate reserve including this stage to final 1 minute active recovery with treadmill speed equivalent to 3km/h. Training of muscle strength: will be used dumbbells for exercises of elbow flexion-extension and diagonal functional Kabat , and knee extension to flexion-extension of the knee , where the load is calculated by the test stipulated one-repetition maximum ( 1RM ) . The training will be divided into two stages. The first 24 sessions (first 2 months) correspond to the first stage 
Obese patients who are part of the Surgery of Obesity and Related Disorders (SCODE) of HUOL and UFRN; target sample of 24 subjects; having a BMI above 30 kg / m2; both genders; aged between 18 and 50 years; presented FVC and FEV1 values above 80% of the predicted age obtained in spirometry; signed an informed consent form.
Cognitive and / or neurological disorders; orthopedic impairments; diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and / or severe cardiovascular disorders such as unstable angina, valvular heart disease, acute arrhythmias, acute myocardial infarction in the last month, high blood pressure and / or uncontrolled diabetes mellitus; presence of cardiac pacemakers; patients who present contraindications to perform the Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test III Guidelines established by the Brazilian Society of Cardiology About Exercise Stress Test.
Increased maximal oxygen uptake in the intervention group compared with the control group after the exercise program, verified by the Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test from the observation of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. 
Secondary outcomes are not expected. 
Mobilization of the mouth of the joint in subjects with and without changes in the joint of the mouth
The influence of mobilization of TMJ on the center of pressure in individuals with and without TMD: A clinical study
Temporomandibular Joint Mobilization nonspecific in 25 individuals with temporomandibular dysfunction and 25 subjects without temporomandibular dysfunction.The technique is performed in a single day for 5 minutes
The volunteers should be aged between 20 and 40 years. Both genders and have full dentition. TMD Group: Display TMD - Mandibular deviation or deflection. Control Group: Not having TMD.
Present crossbite. Present overshot or undershot jaw. Use any type of dental prosthesis. Be in orthodontic treatment or physical therapy. Providing orthopedic and neurological disorders that interfere with the body balance, that information will be reported by the individual and if necessary the presentation of examinations. Use of arch supports. Had blood pressure (BP) high or low. Provide auditory, vestibular, which may interfere with the balance information to be reported by the individual and if necessary the presentation of examinations. Use of medication that may interfere with the balance. Be younger than 20 years and greater than 40 years. Being overweight analyzed with the BMI (Body Mass Index)
The clinical outcome is expected immediately after mobilization nonspecific provide balance in the anteroposterior and medialateral, in  patients with TMD. The balance will be measured by means of a stabilometric platform.
The clinical outcome is expected immediately after mobilization mandibular nonspecific, providing increased mandibular opening in TMD patients. The increased range of motion is measured by a caliper.
Aquatic exercises and health education for the treatment of fibromyalgia
Hydrotherapy and health education for the treatment of fibromyalgia
Initially it was carried out an active recruitment of volunteers through direct contact with doctors, ads in newspapers and written disclosure in Basic Health Units (UBS) of Formiga - MG. The first 46 volunteers who are interested in participating in the study and met the inclusion and exclusion criteria were enrolled in the study. The participants were randomly divided into two groups with a treaty in hydrotherapy and other in inter-relational school of fibromyalgia. Seven questionnaires validity and reliability guaranteed for the Brazilian population were applied by an experienced evaluator who was unaware of the study objectives, as well as the treatment group they belonged to the participants. Questionnaires were: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI); Inventory Beck Depression; Inventory Beck Anxiety; Piper Fatigue Scale; McGill Pain Questionnaire; Functional Independence Measure; Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ)
women who have a confirmed diagnosis of fibromyalgia by a physician and according to the new diagnostic criteria proposed by the American College of Rheumatology in 2011. Regardless of race; aged between 25 and 60 years; BMI below 30; who read and sign the Consent and Informed (IC) not using drugs for more than three months or with stable pharmacological treatment for more than three months.
women who did not sign the consent form; which violate the data collection protocol; which change the drugs during the study period; using steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or nonsteroidal; pregnant women; nursing mothers; patients with a history or presence of cancer or diseases autoimmune; psychiatric; infectious and inflammatory or in the period of data collection or in the three months prior to data collection will also excluded patients who do not participate in at least 80% of the activities proposed by the researchers (EIF and Hydrotherapy).
Both hydrokinesiotherapy as the EIF are non-pharmacological treatment strategies plausible for the management of patients with FM. At that you realize the hydrotherapy can improve the quality of sleep and anxiety levels, while the EIF can improve anxiety, depression and the impact caused by FM.
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Electrical Stimulation for postoperative pain control after liposuction sugery.
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation for pain control after Liposuction
Group 1 consisted of 21 subjetcs received pharmacological analgesia (morphine 7mg + Dipirone Sodium - 1g) and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) with a frequency of 100Hz, 100us pulse duration and intensity of sensory paresthesia causing strong but comfortable without muscle contraction. Group 2 consisted of 21 subjetcs received pharmacological analgesia (morphine + 7mg Dipirone Sodium - 1g) and simulation (SHAM) of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS). The apparatus TENS has been on for 30 minutes, but without emission electric current through the electrodes.
The study included female patients, aged between 18 and 40 years old, healthy, with a body mass index less than 24.9, underwent liposuction of the abdomen, back and flanks.
We excluded in the study subjects who used alcohol, smoking and drugs, systemic diseases, even if controlled by medication, with the presence of low back pain for more than 6 months and prior use of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS).

Reported pain relief immediately after the intervention and reporting of adverse reactions
Data obtained by the McGill Pain Questionnaire - Brazilian version to assess psychological aspects of pain showed greater intensity of perceived pain before the intervention, the dimension of subjective words formed by "distressing - miserable - unbearable" that reflect the importance and urgency of the situation, the space that occupies the pain in self-perception sensory and emotional opinion of an individual, taking into account cognitive phenomena of anticipation, memory, attention and previous experience. The data show that pain after liposuction is important requiring intervention. After the intervention group 1 had significant reduction of pain translated words "light or uncomfortable" followed by "bearable" request without extra anlagésicos, since group 2 had the same pain reduction remained in pain "agonizing" over ordering analgesia .
Effect of the physical training in community-dwelling older women: randomized clinical assay
Effectiveness of the training with isolated load, training with load associated with the aerobic and isolated aerobic training on the functional and muscular performance, on the plasmáticas concentrations of inflammatory mediators and on the satisfaction with the life in community-dwelling older women
The group of isolated load training (GFM) will go to carry through exercises with load for inferior members, by means of the rank of load adjusted for each participant. The program will be composed of exercises eccentric and concentric, for the extensores and flexores of knee, guided and folloied for one of the researchers. The used load will be the correspondent 75% of 1 RM, calculated to each participant. The exercises will be carried through during 10 weeks or 30 consecutive sessions, 3 times/week. Each exercise will be carried through with 8 repetitions and 3 series, interval of recovery of 30 seconds between each series and one minute between each exercise. The group load training associated with the aerobic exercise (GAFM) will carry through the same exercises for inferior members, resisted, with load adjusted for each volunteer, as described for the group GFM, associates to trainings aerobic previous. The aerobico training will be carried through at the beginning of the session, by means of walked, in mat, during 30 minutes, with moderate intensity (65-75% of the foreseen maximum FC for the age - FCmax). The aged ones will be monitored by researchers that will guarantee the reach of the intensity during all period of aerobic training. The third group will be the group of isolated aerobic training(GA) that it will go to carry through a aerobic training, by means of walked, in mat, during 30 minutes, with moderate intensity (65-75% of the FCmax). The aged ones will be monitored by researchers that will guarantee the reach of the intensity during all period of aerobic training. After the period of intervention, all the volunteers will be reevaluated in the same way that previously to the intervention.  
Aging, community-dwelderly women, without distinction of race and/or social class, with equal age or above of 65 years old.
Previously submitted the orthopeadic surgeries of the inferiors members and/or with history of fracture it less has of one year; those that will not be capable to walking without aid; carrying of neurological illnesses; that to present some type of inflammatory illness in the acute phase that they can intervene with the tests; neoplasia in the five previous years; that to use drugs with ample action on the immunological system; that to present detectable cognitivas alterations by means of Mini-Examination of the Mental State; that to carry through physical activity of regular form for more than two times in the week;  to make use of some type of canal choke of calciun (Ca++), inhibitors of the Converting Converting Enzyme of Angiotensina II (ECA) and use of estatinas. 
Functional performance evaluated by the Timed up and go test (TUG), walked speed test of 10m (TC10), test of seat-stand and shuttle walking test (SWT).The TUG consists of the accomplishment of the task of raising of a chair standard of 45 cm of height, to walk for three meters, to turn, to come back and to seat in the same chair. The time expended for the accomplishment of all the passage was used for analysis. The test seat-stand consists of the task of seat-stand of a chair, five consecutive times, with the crossed arms the front of the trunk. The time expended for the accomplishment of the complete task is used for analysis.  In the TC10, the volunteer was guided to walk, in its normal passed one, for a plain passage of 14 meters. The two initial meters for acceleration and two ends for the deceleration had been disrespected. The displacement time, in seconds, by the 10 meters, was written down and used for analysis.  The SWT is composed for 12 periods of training, being the speed of the first period of training of 0,5 meters for second and to each period of training the speed increases 0,17 meters for second. Before initiating the test, the arterial pressure (Pará) and the cardiac frequency (FC) they had been mensuradas. The volunteer was instructed to walk in a running plan, with ten meters of gone and ten meters in return. The volunteer initially, after to hear a sonorous signal, initiated the walked one until the end of the passage. Each new period of training was initiated with a sound with different characteristic, indicating the necessity to increase the speed of the walked one. When the volunteer reached the end of the passage before the signal, it was guided to wait the drive of the following signal marching in the place. In case that the participant had not reached the end of the passage for two consecutive times, the test was interrupted. In the distance total covered in the test it was calculated and used as given of the performance in the test, disrespecting the last return not completed. 
Plasmatics indices of inflammatory mediators (Il-6 and TNF) mensuread high-sensibility lits by ELISA; muscular force of the inferior members esteem by the seat-stand test; force of manual hold evaluated by the Jamar dynamometer; clinical and antropometrical measures (circumference of waist, index of corporal mass, ponderal weight); satisfaction with the life (two questions of the Center of Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale - CES-D); cognitives aspects for Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination - Revised(ACE-R) and Depression geriatrics scale; urinary and fecal incontinence for the fecal constipation (fecal contipation system)and micicional frequencie;   
Treatment of efforts urine losses through conventional physical therapy and Virtual Games .
Protocol of treatment for stress urinary incontinence through kinesiotherapy and virtual reality - Wii Fit Plus.
Gameterapia group: 38 women with stress urinary incontinence will exercises for the pelvic floor twice a week for two months using virtual games. The intervention consists of a heating phase 05 containing rapid contractions of the pelvic floor muscles (MAP), 5 slow contractions supported by three seconds of MAP, 3 cough simulations and 3 jumps on the trampoline. The rest time between exercises will be 30 seconds. Later the games will be held: Lotus Focus, Penguin Slide, Table Tilt and Balance Bubble. Between the first and fourth week, during the execution of the games will be held 2 sets of 8 repetitions of contractions of the MAP; between the fifth and eighth week will be held 3 sets of 8 repetitions of contractions of the MAP. The total duration of the intervention is 40 minutes.

Group kinesiotherapy: 38 women with stress urinary incontinence will exercises for the pelvic floor twice a week for two months using virtual games. The intervention consists of a heating phase 05 containing rapid contractions of the pelvic floor muscles (MAP), 5 slow contractions supported by three seconds of MAP, 3 cough simulations and 3 jumps on the trampoline. The rest time between exercises will be 30 seconds. Later exercises will be conducted: diaphragmatic breathing, bridge exercises, abdominal exercises and mobility exercises pélvica.Entre the first and fourth week, during the execution of the games will be held 2 sets of 8 repetitions of contractions of the MAP; between the fifth and eighth week will be held 3 sets of 8 repetitions of contractions of the MAP. The board will be evolved every session, increasing 5 seconds in the exercise maintenance time. The total duration of the intervention is 40 minutes.
45 and 70 years of age; no hymen intact; have stress urinary incontinence in Pad Test 1 hour; unable to exercise for the muscles of the pelvic floor; their informed consent; not make use of hormone replacement therapy for three months; not have done perineoplasty; without prolapse grade III or IV; no history of epilepsy.
Not understand simple verbal commands; can not contract the pelvic floor muscles in isolation; to present vaginal or urinary tract infection; withdraw consent.
Decrease the symptoms of stress urinary incontinence after two months of training, verified by the quality of life questionnaires applied.
Increased strength and coordination of the pelvic floor muscles after two months of training, verified through perineometry, ultrasound and electromyography of the perineal region.
Immersion in cold water effects in the physical reestablishment after exercise
Immediate and late effects of immersion in cold water in the post-exercise recovery on clinical, functional, metabolic, autonomic and cardiovascular parameters
Volunteers will be allocated randomly into two groups: a control group (CG, n = 20) who did not suffer any recuperative intervention, and the experimental group (EG, n = 20), which will be submitted to a recuperative intervention by immersion in cold water for 15 minutes at temperature 13 ± 1 ° C. 
For this study volunteers will be subjected to a test composed of four steps. In the first step the baseline before the periodization of the volunteer will be given. The volunteer will perform the evaluation of muscle function by maximal voluntary contraction and functional tests, as follows: 30 meter test, t-test of agility, vertical jump test (squat jump) and 40-second test. 
Healthy volunteers; male; aged 13 to 18 years; football players.
Smokers volunteers; use of medications that affect autonomic activity of the heart as, for example, beta blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors; alcoholics; Use of chronically inflammatory drugs such as, for example, betamethasone; Diagnosis of metabolic disorders and / or endocrine known, for example, diabetes mellitus and dislipedemia; and are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Best recovery of pain using EVA, the perception recovery by Likert scale and muscle sensitivity to pressure by the pressure algometer, muscle strength through isokinetic performing a maximal voluntary contraction, agility, anaerobic power, jump and speed through the photocells blood lactate concentration using blood collected from the ear lobe and lower overhead to the autonomic nervous system by heart rate variability captured by a heart rate monitor and heart rate collected through the heart rate monitor and blood pressure through a stethoscope and sphygmomanometer in the group that will suffer the intervention with immersion in cold water from the finding statistically significant difference before and after the completion of technical and recovery period.
Difference in vagal reentry, anticipation of peak lactate and functional abilities between the intervention and control groups, respectively collected by a heart rate monitor, blood collection the earlobe and photocells equipment before and after the technical and recovery period.
Treatment of female urinary incontinence with electrical stimulation of vaginal muscle and evaluation of vaginal pH
Stress urinary incontinence: treatment with intravaginal electric stimulation and vaginal pH evaluation
At the initial visit, the subjects individually received verbal information about pelvic floor anatomy, muscle localization and function. There were 2 sessions per week for 4 weeks giving a total of 8 sessions of . The QUARK Dualpex 961™ device with a cylindrical shaped electrode surrounded by four metal rings was used for  intravaginal electrical stimulation (IVES).The IVES parameters were: a 35 Hertz fixed frequency, a 500 microsecond pulse, 20 minute of duration and current intensity varying according to patient tolerance. Each individual patient had their own electrode throughout the study. 
women with clinical symptoms of stress urinary incontinence and mixes urinary incontinence
Women with the presence of an intrauterine dispositive, heart pacemaker, use of hormonal therapy, use of antibiotics, use of an intravaginal drug, urinary tract infection for less than two weeks, vaginal infection, severe pelvic organ prolapse (grade III), pregnancy, postpartum, leucorrhea, itching, pelvic pain, vulvar irritation, and/or other vaginal symptoms that could interfere with the results,urethral obstructions, neurogenic detrusor overactivity and detrusor hypocontractility 
Changes of the vaginal microflora after intravaginal electrical stimulation: evaluated by bacterioscopy 
Quality of life after urinary incontinence treatment: evaluated by specific questionnaire (International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form - ICIQ-SF)
The effect of aerobic exercise training with intramuscular proteins in obese individuals with insulin resistance
The effect of aerobic exercise training on intracellular signaling pathways and heat shock protein 72 (Hsp72) in obese individuals with insulin resistance
In this study, all volunteers recruited (9 obese insulin-sensitive and 9 obese insulin resistant) will receive the same intervention, it is aerobic exercise training program held in intervention will have a total duration of 12 weeks, with exercise have volume (40 to 60 minutes per session), intensity (60 to 70% of maximum oxygen consumption) and weekly (3-5 times per week) progressivos.Não there will be a control group or placebo.
Body mass index equal to 30kg/m2 or superiror, non smokers and physically inactive. Volunteers should still provide stable body weight in the 3 months preceding the study, did not participate in programs to reduce weight in the last six months and not using drugs that can affect metabolism. For the group of resistant insulin, volunteers must submit insulin resistance evaluated from laboratory tests.
Reporting the presence of acute or chronic diseases.
Mean expression of proteins related to the stress / inflammation in skeletal muscle; before and after 12 weeks of training.
Composition of food intake (Proteins, carbohydrates and fats) assessed from 3-day food record, will be made every 15 days during the 12 weeks of training.
Mobilize response on joint pain and muscle activity in dysfunction temporomandibular: randomized controlled trial study
Cranoicervicomandibular system : evaluation methods and multimodal therapeutic intervention
Were part of the treatment group 13 women , they performed 10 treatment sessions, twice a week . The treatment consisted of joint mobilization techniques: the medial - lateral and longitudinal slides made ??on the temporomandibular joints in a small degree of motion, intermittently for 30 seconds, repeated twice. In between each mobilization , there were five mouth opening movements with language in the incisive papilla , in order to promote local relaxation. The lateral mobilization of the hyoid bone performed repeatedly for 30 seconds twice , with the patient supine. Another 13 women belonged to the control group did not perform any treatment until the reassessment.
Women; have TMD diagnosis as the RDC / TMD instrument; Temporomandibular index greater than 0.5 ; belong to age group 18-40 years; patients able to understand commands ; are willing to participate in the study by signing the free and informed consent.
Fracture or previous surgery in orofacial or cervical region; a neurological disorder or neoplastic disease in the craniocervical region; irritable nerve compression evidence assessed by neural tests for the median, radial and ulnar ; They are making use of medications during the study period.
 They were selected according to the sample calculation , thirty patients. A reduction of mixed dysfunction of 92.3 % to 15.4 % in the treatment group . In addition, TMD diagnosis , present in all patients in the evaluation , was deleted in 69.2 % of patients in the treatment group , the revaluation . There was an increase in the pain threshold in the anterior temporal muscle, masseter average . It also identified increased electrical activity of sternocleidomastoid during maximum intercuspation .
These findings show that the joint mobilization was effective in suppressing the DTM and tenderness of the anterior temporal muscles. The technique does not interfere with the muscle activity that little was altered in the study participants, although these present serious DTM .
Effect of different forms of electrical stimulation for pain relief in patients with low back pain: a randomized clinical trial
Effect of different forms of electrical stimulation in patients with low back pain: a randomized clinical trial
The search will be performed with individuals who have low back pain, the aim is to observe which pain relief method is most effective, and this will be evalueted throught scientifically validated instruments.
There will be 15 groups: Acupuncture (1) Acupuncture Placebo (2), electroacupuncture with high frequency (3), with low frequency electroacupuncture (4), interferential current with high frequency and intensity motor (5), Interferential Current frequently Low intensity and motor (6), interferential current with high frequency and sensory intensity (7), interferential current with a low frequency and sensory intensity (8), with TENS intensity and high frequency motor (9), TENS motor with low frequency and intensity (10) TENS high frequency and sensory intensity (11), TENS low frequency and sensory intensity (12) drug therapy (13) Placebo currents (14) and Placebo electroacupuncture (15) .Each group will have 25 patients, who will receive treatment for 10 sessions 2-3 times a week with one of the therapy modalities, the patient does not know exactly in which group he/she is, nor the evaluator, only the therapist who will apply the treatment will know, to not create expectations may mask the result.
Volunteers of both genders; aged between 20 and 55; to have nonspecific low back pain for at least 3 months ago; paid work for at least 8 hours per week
patients performing physical therapy or any other method of treatment, pregnant women or mothers who gave birth in the last 3 months; important deformities and / or amputations of lower limbs (LL); low back pain due to infections; tumors; osteoporosis; rheumatoid arthritis; vertebral fracture; radiculopathy or inflammatory processes; skin lesions in the affected region; and infections assets; other nervous or dermal tissue disease affecting the lower back; surgery or invasive examinations of the spine in the last 3 months; inability to understand the instructions or consent for the study; psychiatric diseases; neurological disorders (eg. stroke; Parkinson
Pain reduction in patients undergoing treatment with analgesic currents. For evaluating the reduction of pain, will be used the numeric scale of 11 points, pressure pain threshold, Mcgill pain questionnaire, temporal summation test and conditioned pain modulation test. And, for determining the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% in each test, Scale and questionnaire used pre and post intervention will be considered.
Improving the quality of life, reducing depression, anxiety, disability and negative expectations related to pain. To evaluate these variables will be used: the Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (FABQ), Disability Questionnaire Roland Morris (QIRM), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Short Form Health Survey 36 (SF-36), the Beck Depression (BDI), Trait Anxiety Inventory-State (STAI), Catastrophizing Scale of Pain and Tampa kinesiophobia Scale. And for finding the expected outcomes, it will be considered a variation of at least 5% in each scale and used questionnaire before and after treatment.
Analysis of fatigue and immune response in patients with and without cancer treated with video game
Analysis of fatigue and immune response cells in cancer patients treated with exergames Randomized and controlled clinical trial
Experimental group 1: thirty cancer patients in chemoterapy and radiotherapy, and receive protocol of twenty sessions with exergames with the Xbox 360 Kinect with games Wall Breaker, Stomp it and Run the World belonging to the game Your Shape Evolved 2012, frequency of three times weekly, during from 30 at 45 minutes every session.Experimental group 2: thirty cancer patients diagnoses, but are not receiving chemoterapy, radiotherapy and receive protocol of twenty sessions with exergames with the Xbox 360 Kinect with games Wall Breaker, Stomp it and Run the World belonging to the game Your Shape Evolved 2012, frequency of three times weekly, during from 30 at 45 minutes every session. Control group: thirty volunteers without cancer diagnoses and  receive receive protocol of twenty sessions with exergames with the Xbox 360 Kinect with games Wall Breaker, Stomp it and Run the World belonging to the game Your Shape Evolved 2012, frequency of three times weekly, during from 30 at 45 minutes every session.

Control group: Healthy individuals; both sexes; aged between 18 and 80 years.
Experimental group: individuals with cancer;  both sexes; aged between 18 and 80 years; chemotherapy; radiotherapy; after surgery with medical clearance for physical activity.
Cognitive disorders that hinder the explanation of the handling of virtual environments; serious infectious diseases; disabling diseases in upper and lower limbs; patients with myopathies; diseases with recognized change of collagen; with neurological diseases; for personal reasons do not wish to participate; previous contact with exergames.
Reducing of muscle fatigue at period exergames therapy verified by spectral median frequency of the EMG signal; being evidenced by change of the values of median frequency of the EMG signal in measurements made between session 0, 10th session and 20th session; during maximal voluntary isometric contraction 60s of the tibialis anterior, medial and lateral gastrocnemius muscles of both lower limbs.
Improvement of static balance after period therapy exergames; being evidenced variation of parameters of anteroposterior, mediolateral and projection area of the center of pressure of the body oscillations measured by baropodometry; for 20s in the orthostatic position in the presence and absence of the vision with aid sunglasses and baffle. 
Clinical, blood, mobility and quality of life evaluation in people with metabolic syndrome after whole body vibration exercise in vibratory platform
Clinical, metabolic, functional and quality of life evaluation in people with metabolic syndrome after whole body vibration exercise in oscillating / vibratory platform
The intervention used in this study will be the whole body vibration exercise (WBVE) in subjects with metabolic syndrome.
The subjects (500) will be distributed in two groups (250 each), as: (i) WBVE 2 sessions per week -  where the subjects will be performing 10 sessions of WBVE, being that two sessions per week, ending in 5 weeks’ time, and (ii) Control group - where the subjects will be performing the same position of the WBVE 2 sessions per week group. However, with the equipment in off mode.
Outpatients both genders; aging over 40 years; of the 
Blood pressure higher than 180 x 110 mmHg; Cardiovascular disease in the last 6 months due to heart attack or stroke; Neurological, muscular or rheumatological disease that limit the movements on the oscillating/vibratory platform; Severe or incapacitant clinical disease; Patients that refuse to sign the Agreement Term to participate in the study.
Significant improvement (p<0.05) of funcionality and quality of life in patients with metabolic syndrome due the perform of the 10 (ten) sessions of whole body vibration exercise.
Improvement of clinical and metabolic parameters evaluated through laboratorial dosages, reducing the level of cardiovascular risks related to the progression of the metabolic syndrome. Improvement of the functionality of the subjects with metabolic syndrome, verified through of the Short Physical Performance Battery, and the flexibility evaluation. Improvement the quality of life of individuals with metabolic syndrome evaluated through the WHOQol – Bref questionnaire. Reduction of the pain of the individuals with metabolic syndrome evaluated through of the visual analogic scale.
Effects of exercise using video game and nutritional guidance on musculoskeletal function in older women 
Effects of video game physical training and nutritional orientation on functional capacity of older women


Exercise Group: 22 elderly will perform physical training using video games, 3 times a week for 12 weeks. Nutritional guidance Group: 22 elderly will receive individualized nutritional counseling with protein adequacy and other nutrients, bimonthly, for 12 weeks; Group of Nutritional guidance associated with exercise: 22 elderly will receive individualized nutritional counseling with protein adequacy and other nutrients, bimonthly, associated with physical training using video game held 3 times a week for 12 weeks. Control group: 22 elderly will not receive treatment.
Independent older women, 65 years and over; residents in the Curitiba city and metropolitan area, Parana, Brazil; inactive or moderately active; without cognitive impairment according to the Mini mental state examination 
Volunteers with diagnosis of neurological disease and/or trauma and orthopedic fixation or prosthesis with metallic or non-metallic implants, cardiac, respiratory, kidney, liver, osteoporosis, diabetes, hypertension and endocrine decompensated; obese; use of medications that affect balance; visually impaired without the use of visual correctors; voluntary unavailable to participate in all stages of the study.
Increase of muscle strength assessed using isokinetic dynamometer. Increase of cross-sectional area and muscle volume assessed by MRI. Improvement of postural control evaluated on the force platform. Improvement of muscle architecture assessed by ultrasound. Improvement of range of motion assessed by fleximeter
Secondaries outcomes are not expected
Effect of intensity of electric current and evidence of blinding method
Effect of intensity of interferential current and validation of the placebo method
The subjects were randomly divided into five groups, described as follows:
Adjusted motor group: 25 participants of both sexes were recruited, the interferential current (IFC) was applied for 30 minutes and a frequency of 100Hz was used, the intensity was gradually increased until a strong contraction but comfortable reported by the subject; at intervals of 5 minutes, the intensity was increased again until a strong sensation.
Healthy subjects; 18 to 60 years of age.
Participants with peripheral nerve injury in the upper limbs; presence of pain in the upper limbs; pregnancy; chronic diseases; use of cardiac pacemaker; epilepsy; allergy to the material of the electrodes; current use of analgesic medication or in the last seven days; altered skin conditions or loss of sensation in the established areas of electrode placement.
At the end of the study, it was observed a percentage of 60% of subjects, included in the new placebo group, who believed they received active treatment.
At the end of study, none of the placebo groups significantly altered the pressure pain threshold, cutaneous sensitive threshold and pain intensity after treatment, presenting a difference greater than 5% of pretreatment value. Only in the adjusted motor group there was significant change less than 5% in all variables.
The effect of teaching foot care for people with Diabetes Mellitus type II
The effect of teaching foot care to prevent risk of impaired skin integrity of the feet of people with Diabetes Mellitus type II
The volunteers were divided into 2 groups (control and treated). Treated group: 36 people with type 2 diabetes who receive the intervention 
The target sample size is 72 people with Diabetes Mellitus type II diagnosed for at least five years;
registered in the System of Registration and Monitoring Hypertensive and diabetic-Hiperdia; with a minimum age of eighteen years and maximum age not stipulated and both genders.
Presence of foot ulcers; presence of amputations of the lower limbs; presence of thrombosis; deficit in cognitive ability, defined by the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE)
Improvement in the treated group was found to reduce the risk of impaired integrity of the skin of the feet when compared to the control group, as they have a score above 85 .
Improvement in the group treated with the intention of foot care was found when compared to the control group, since higher scores 20-25 points.
Effects of the restorative material in atraumatic restorations
A 24-month randomized clinical trial of ART restorations in Class II cavities with two glass ionomer cements
Experimental group: Twenty-five participants presenting teeth with cavity (Class II), after the cavity is restored with glass carbomer (Glass Carbomer) using the ART technique.

Control group: Twenty-five participants presenting teeth with cavity (Class II), after the cavity will be restored with chemically-cured glass ionomer cement (GC Fuji IX GP Extra) using the ART technique.
Students aged 4 to 12 years, of both genders and having deciduous and/or permanent teeth with caries lesions involving the proximal surface, visible during clinical examination and classified as score 05 ICDAS (International Caries Detection and Assessment System); the cavities should have an occlusal opening compatible with the sizes of the dentin excavators according to the ART technical protocol.
Students with deciduos and/or permanent teeth with pulp pathology characterized for facial edema and fistula, volunteers whose parents do not agree with the Informed Consent Form, non-collaborative children, volunteers with special needs.

Number of restorations (percentage) classified with scores equal to or lower than 2 in the Frencken scale after 24 months of clinical service
Number of restorations (percentage) with secondary caries.
Manual therapy and exercises applied to cervical spine in patients with temporomandibular disorders
Effect of a cervical rehabilitation protocol in clinical condition and mandibular function in patients with temporomandibular disorders
The intervention protocol was based on manual therapy, stabilization exercises and stretching.
The first technique was the upper cervical flexion mobilization, that was applied for 10 minutes, than a C5 central posterior-anterior mobilization was made for 9 minutes; the cranio-cervical flexor stabilization exercise was done 10 times holding 10 seconds the flexing position graded through feedback from a pressure biofeedback device (Stabilizer; Chattanooga Group Inc., Chattanooga, TN, USA). It was realized stretching of the muscles: sternocleidomastoid, scalene, splenius capitatis, semispinalis capitatis, upper trapezius
Patients diagnosed with myogenic or mixed temporomandibular disorders 
Patients diagnosed with arthrogenic or discogenic temporomandibular disorders 
Maximum mouth opening pain free using a caliper;  Pain assessment wit a scale from RDC/TMD protocol, that consists of a line scored from 0 to 10, where 0 represents no pain and 10 the worst pain that the subject has experienced; To evaluated mandibular function was used the Mandibular Function Impairment Questionnaire - MFIQ 
Measurement bilateral pain threshold to pressure the muscles masseter and anterior temporalis 
Effects of low level laser therapy in the electromyographic fatigue of bíceps brachi muscle before and after a resistive program training in young males 
Effects of low level laser therapy in the electromyographic fatigue, in the blood lactate, and in the inflamatory markers after induced biceps  biceps brachi muscle fatigue before and after a resisitive  program training in young males
Experimental group 1: 15 health male subjects receive active low level laser therapy after performing quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. Experimental group 2: 15 health male subjects receive placebo low level laser therapy after performing quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. Control group: 15 health male will be assessed but won´t not receive low level laser therapy, and they will not be submitted to the  quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. The training will be done twice a week, lasting up to 10 minutes per session. The allocation of the volunteers in each group was made randomly. Subjects of experimental grroup 1 and 2 performed the exercise during 8 weeks, twice a week. Control group also was reevaluated after 8 weeks.
Full active range of motion and no pain in the shoulder, elbow and wrist; 
Absence of fracture or previous surgery on spine and upper extremities; 
Restriction in range of motion of shoulder, elbow and wrist; 
History of trauma or previous surgery in trunk; upper extremities; 
Measurement of long head of bíceps brachii electromyographic fatigue before and 24 hours after bíceps brachii resistance training. Also those analyses will be maden in the control group, with 8 weeks apart. The hypothesis is that active laser group will show lower values of fatigue when compared to placebo and control group, and that placebo group will show lower values when compared to control group.
Analysis of rate of force development before and after biceps brachii resistance training. This analysis will be made in the control group, with 8 weeks apart. Rate of force development é calculated through the derivate of force peak by the minimum time necessary to reach the peak force. The hypothesis is that active group will show greater values when compared to placebo group, and that placebo will show greater values when compared to control group. There will be not show difference in the control group.
Influence of a weight loss nutritional counselling program on cardiovascular diseease risk factors and the role of adipose tissue hormones on weight maintenance and regain

Influence of a weight loss nutritional counselling program on cardiometabolic profile and the role of adipokines on weight maintenance and regain

52 overweight and obese patients will attend a nutritional counselling program for weight loss (Weight Control Group) in the Nutrition ambulatory at the University Hospital of University of São Paulo - HU/USP. The program is a 4-month nutritional intervention consisting in five group sessions, 1 hour each, with a dietician. Paients will be guided to adopt a hypocaloric diet (20% reduction of the subjects total energy expenditure) besides receiving information about healthy eating; functional foods; dietary fiber types and sources; and reading and understanding food labels. Biochemical parameters (fasting glucose, insulin, total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, GOT, GPT, leptin, adiponectin), anthropometric parameters (weight, height, waist circumference), body composition (bioeletric impedance), dietary intake, physical activity and blood pressure will be assessed at baseline (T0), at the end of the program (T1) and six months later (T2).

Adults (aged 20 to 59 years), both sexes, BMI of at least 25 kg/m2, who have read and signed the written informed consent. The subjects must attend at least 4 of the 5 group meetings.

Participation in other interventional studies; use of weight loss medication; use of illicit drugs; alcoholics; pregnancy or breastfeeding; upper and lower limb amputation; practice of high intensity physical activity; surgical procedures that may influence body weight 3 months prior and/or during the intervention and follow-up period; critical chronic and acute diseases that limit life expectancy in 6 months. Information regarding inclusion and exclusion criteria will be obtained from personal interview and medical records. 

Change in leptin and adiponectin levels (assessed by blood collection and ELISA analysis) after the intervention, based on the observation of any variation other than zero between T0 and T1, and correlation with weight regain 6 months after the end of the intervention.
Change in food consumption (assessed by 24-hour recall) and physical activity levels (assessed by Baecke questionnaire) after the intervention and 6 months after the end of the intervention, based on the observation of any change other than zero between T0 and T1 and between T1 and T2 periods.
Postoperative vision assessment after changing one of the steps of laser surgery degree correction
Influence of the change in the shape of the corneal epithelium removal in postoperative visual acuity in photorefractive keratectomy (PRK)
Usually, the corneal deepithelization, which is one of the steps of refractive surgery called photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) is made circular in shape.
In this study, with a randomized manner in each of the 43 patients undergoing simultaneous bilateral PRK, an eye was deepithelized the circular shape and the other in the oval shape, forming two study groups ( eyes submitted to scarification circular and oval eyes submitted to scarification ). For this, were used the circular and oval markers. The oval marker was developed specifically for this study with the following characteristics: greater diameter 9.5 mm, lower diameter 7.5 mm and 5 mm high with a handling rod into the lateral delimiting an internal area 55, 93 mm2 [radius 1 (4.75) x-ray 2 (3.75) x (3,14)]
Volunteers of both gender ; aged between 18 and 50 years; formal indication for bilateral PRK with preoperative visual acuity of 1.0 in both eyes and the difference between the spherical equivalent refractive error of the eye of each less than 1 diopter .
Patients with known or suspected keratoconus ; with cataracts ; people with corneal diseases ; ametropies greater than 8 negative diopters or greater than 4 positive diopters or greater than 4 cylindrical diopters ; people with amblyopia ; people with strabismus, prior eye surgery history.
Regarding the subjective evaluation of biomicroscopy density of epithelial stacking, made ??by the examiner, in 64.3 % of patients had a smaller stack in the eyes submitted to the oval scarification , 31.0 % was not identified difference and in 4.7% of patients there was a higher stacking in the eyes with oval scarification.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Impact of psychotherapy in choosing sexual partners of patients with sexual deviance receiving drug treatment
Impact of psychotherapy in choosing sexual partners of patients with paraphilias receiving drug treatment
17 subjects with a diagnosis of sexual preference disorders (F65 - ICD 10) and excessive sexual appetite (F52.7 - ICD 10) were randomized. Group 1 (control): 9 individuals and Group 2 (active): 8 individuals. All patients will receive usual medical treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Group 1: sixteen weekly sessions of neutral psychotherapy group. Group 2: active Psychodramatic  psychotherapy (sixteen weekly sessions)
Male, any ethnicity, age 18 years or more, literate; pedophiles who have sexual fantasies involving minors (no sexual activity or use of child pornography current or previous); sign the document authorizing the participation
Suicide risk, psychosis not stabilized; use of physical violence; previous or current history of children sexual abuse, possession, production, custody, disclosure or access to pornographic material involving childrens; patients planning child sexual abuse
Observed outcome: Group 2 (active) showed a significant mean increase  of normal sexual behaviors than group 1 (placebo) at a significance level (P<0.05)
Observed outcomes: there were no statistically significant differences between the two groups
A Phase III Open Label, Randomized, 2 Arm Study of Ixabepilone Administered Every 21 Days Versus Paclitaxel Or Doxorubicin Administered Every 21 Days in Women with Advanced Endometrial Cancer Who Have Previously Been Treated with Chemotherapy
A Phase III Open Label, Randomized, 2 Arm Study of Ixabepilone Administered Every 21 Days Versus Paclitaxel Or Doxorubicin Administered Every 21 Days in Women with Advanced Endometrial Cancer Who Have Previously Been Treated with Chemotherapy
Comparison group: 250 patients will receive ixabepilone (40 mg/m2) administered IV over 3 hours every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Control group: 250 patients will receive, depending on prior therapy received paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 administered intravenously for 3 hours or according to institutional guidelines every 21 days until progression or unacceptable toxicity or 60 mg/m2 of doxorubicin administered IV or according to institutional guidelines every 21 days until progression, cumulative dose of 500mg/m2 or unacceptable toxicity
All subjects must be informed of the investigational nature of this study and must
sign and give written informed consent in accordance with institutional and
WOCBP who are unwilling or unable to use an acceptable method to avoid
pregnancy for the entire study period and for up to 4 weeks after the last dose of
The primary analysis for this study will be a comparison of OS in all randomized subjects in the two treatment arms (ixabepilone vs control chemotherapy) using a two-sided, alpha = 0.05 level, log-rank test, stratified for measurable disease (yes versus no), prior anthracycline (yes versus no), and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma (yes versus no) as established at the time of randomization.  The OS distribution of each randomized arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit methods. A two-sided, 95% confidence interval for median OS in each arm will be computed using the Brookmeyer and Crowley method.  The hazard ratio of ixabepilone to control chemotherapy will be estimated using the Cox proportional hazard model stratified by prior anthracycline, and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma with randomized treatment arm as the single covariate. A two-sided 95% confidence interval for the hazard ratio will be calculated.  A Cox proportional hazard model will be used to assess the association of potential prognostic factors with OS and to adjust the treatment comparison for these factors. This Cox model will be stratified for measurable disease (yes versus no), prior anthracycline use (yes versus no) and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma (yes versus no) and will contain the following covariates: Karnofsky performance status (70 - 80 versus 90 - 100) and number of disease sites (<= 2 verses > 2). Estimates of the hazard ratio and its two-sided 95% confidence interval will be presented for each covariate, including randomized treatment.  In addition an unstratified log-rank test as well as an unstratified Cox proportional hazard model, using the stratification factors as covariates, will be performed.  The method of Gail and Simon38 will be used to test for a qualitative interaction between treatment and strata measurable disease (yes versus no), prior anthracycline (yes versus no), and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma (yes or no). This test will be conducted at the alpha = 0.10 level.  
PFS, overall response rate, duration of response and time to response are secondary endpoints for this study.  For these secondary endpoints, a hierarchical testing procedure will be used so that the overall experiment-wise Type I error rate is 0.05. Thus, if the primary efficacy analysis of OS shows a statistically significant difference between randomized arms, then testing of the treatment difference for PFS will proceed at the 0.05 two-sided significance level. If the overall survival analysis shows a significant difference between randomized treatment arms, then an analysis of overall response rate will proceed at the 0.05 two-sided significance level.  An interim analysis of overall survival will be performed when approximately 176 subjects will have death events    A comparison of PFS between the two randomized arms (ixabepilone verses control chemotherapy) using a two-sided, ? = 0.05 level, log-rank test, stratified for prior anthracycline use (yes versus no) and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma (yes versus no) as established at the time of randomization will be performed. The PFS distribution of each randomized arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit methods. A two-sided, 95% confidence interval for median survival in each arm will be computed. The hazard ratio and its 95% confidence interval of ixabepilone to control chemotherapy will be estimated using the same unadjusted and adjusted Cox proportional hazard model as described above for OS.  The analyses of tumor response will be based on the best overall response as determined by the investigators.   Overall response rate will be analyzed using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test, with an associated odds ratio estimate and 95% confidence interval, stratified by prior anthracycline, and papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma, to compare the response rates between the two randomized arms. The tumor response rate will be computed in each treatment arm for all randomized subjects. An exact two-sided 95% confidence interval for the response rate will be computed using the method of Clopper and Pearson.39 Time to response for each treatment arm will be summarized using descriptive statistics (median, minimum, and maximum). No formal statistical comparisons are planned.  The duration of overall response in each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Kaplan-Meier curves by randomized arm will be produced. A two-sided 95% confidence interval for median duration will be computed using the methods of Brookmeyer and Crowley. No formal statistical comparisons are planned.   For the primary OS endpoint, descriptive subset analyses will be performed for the following factors (as determined at baseline), measurable disease (yes, no), age (< 65, >= 65), race, prior anthracycline (yes, no); papillary serous or clear cell carcinoma (yes, no); Karnofsky performance status (70 - 80, 90 - 100), and number of disease sites (<= 2, > 2).  The above subset analyses will also be performed for PFS and response rate.   
Long-term Ambrisentan Extension Study for Pediatric Patients Who Participated in AMB112529
AMB114588 - An open-label, long term extension study for treatment of Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension in paediatric patients aged 8 years up to 18 years who have participated in AMB112529 and in whom continued treatment with Ambrisentan is desired
Low dose group: 33 patients globally and 3 patients in Brazil receiving Ambrisentan, dose 2.5mg to 5mg according to body weight, once daily, every day for up to 10 years

High dose group: 33 patients globally and 3 patients in Brazil receiving Ambrisentan, dose 5mg to 10mg according to body weight, once daily, every day for up to 10 years
Volunteers who participated in the study AMB112529; with diagnosis of Persistent  Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension;  Male or female; 

Subjects who were withdrawn from ambrisentan in Study AMB112529;subjects with severe renal impairment;
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Ambrisentan in the proposed paediatric Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension population, safety and tolerability wil be assessed by a comparison between two ambrisentan dose groups (low x high). The parameters that will be used are review of display of adverse events, laboratory values, vital signs and pubertal development.The exams will be perfomed during the conduction of the study.
Obtain supportive efficacy data on the pediatric use of ambrisentan in pulmonary arterial hypertension. The following efficacy evaluation parameters will be included: The change from baseline in the 6 minute walking distance (6MWD) test evaluated after 24 weeks of therapy; Mean changes from baseline in the 6MWD test at weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, and 20; The time to clinical worsening of PAH; The change from baseline in Subject Global Assessment to week 24 using the SF-10 health survey for children; The changes week 24; Change from baseline in plasma from baseline in WHO functional class to N-Terminal pro-B-Type Natriuretic Peptide (NT- Pro BNP)concentration at week 24. 
Study of genetic alterations in patients with Keratoconus using DNA sequencing technique dna
Study of genetic mutations in patients with
Keratoconus in western central Brazil using reaction polymerase chain in real time
Group or experimental case:
  60 keratoconus patients (confirmed by Orbscan) aged 18 to 40 years old with no other ophthalmic disease or previous surgery or systemic diseases. 5 ml of blood will be collected with antiplatelet where they will be stored in a freezer for this specific study with temperatures around -20 Celsius until the completion of qPCR.
Volunteers between 18-40 years of age with keratoconus; without keratoconus; no surgery or previous eye diseases; absence of systemic diseases; who accept sign the consent form and clarification
volunteers under the age of 18 years and above 40 years; who did not accept to sign the consent form and enlightenment; with diseases or previous eye surgery; systemic diseases
Observe VSX1 gene polymorphism, mir-184 and DOCK9 by qPCR technique for identifying DNA mutant alleles
It is expected that the polymorphism VSX1 genes, miR-184, DOCK9 is expressed in at least 5% of the population with keratoconus and is statistically significant compared to controls
Sitting posture and changes in respiratory function
Sitting position and respiratory function in two significantly different chair-table system 
15 volunteers participated in the study. The participants were divided into three groups by drawing lots. Each group attended for five consecutive days for evaluation, which occurred between 9 am and 11 am. In this study each subject served as its own control. Were evaluated changes of respiratory function in two different table-chair systems, the first being a conventional system (system A) that matched the classic concept of table-Chair system ideal for staying in sitting posture, in which the chair leads to an angle of approximately 90° bending of hips and knees, and an experimental system (system B) which featured chair with 50 cm height above the ground, seat with inclination of 30° from the horizontal, support to the knees with inclination of 25° from the horizontal, table with top in 20° of inclination.
Measures were carried out using height and weight balance clinic with bound height gauge and the identification, through palpation of anatomical points to be assessed, in accordance with the program tutorial SAPO adapted, being used, the following points: tragus, C7, acromion, lateral epicondyle, distal portion of the ulna, greater trochanter of the femur, knee joint line and medial malleolus, which were marked with stickers and styrofoam balls of 1 cm in right hemibody.
Female university students, aged between 18 and 25 years, regularly enrolled in a public University, healthy, Caucasian, right-handed, sedentary, with body mass index between 18.5 to 24.9 kg/m2
Diseases of the respiratory system or musculoskeletal system
In relation to the sitting posture, this study evaluated by means of photogrammetry, joint angles relating to anteriorização of the head, trunk flexion in relation to the vertical, flexion of the shoulder, elbow flexion and knee flexion, featuring the most frequent attitude of each subject for each of the furnitures, according to the group's average posture. The analysis of images, itself, was performed, using the program AutoCAD 2010 for the measurement of angles relating to anatomical points previously demarcated. These tariff estimating angles were their simple average and standard deviation and by establishing the attitude of individuals in each average furniture. In relation to respiratory function were evaluated variables: forced vital capacity, forced expiratory volume in first second, Fev1/FVC ratio, forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of maximum expiratory flow and CVF.
In comparing the values of joint angles obtained in sitting posture in two furnitures and the data obtained in the spirometric evaluation, based on the parameters evaluated, was used paired samples analysis by comparing values in orthostatic position with values in each of the furniture assessed, the values obtained from the two furnitures between itself and the values of each of the two subgroups found in conventional furniture. It was examined whether the data obtained in pulmonary assessment for each furniture. Since this analysis did not provide statistically significant difference for none of the 15 participants, we worked with the average of the individual values for each variable in each furniture.
Static Balance in Children with Cerebral Palsy Submitted to Neuromuscular Block and Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation
Static Balance and Function in Children with Cerebral Palsy Submitted to Neuromuscular Block and Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation: Study Protocol for Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trial
All participants will be submitted to the administration of BT-A in the lower limbs, performed by a single specialist in physical rehabilitation. The injected muscles will be determined based on the assessment of the specialist during the screening of the participants. The muscles to be injected are the gastrocnemius (lateral and medial), hip adductors and/or hamstrings, unilaterally for hemiplegic children and bilaterally for diplegic children. Body mass and application site will be considered for the calculation of the maximal dosage per patient. The maximal dose of BT-A (BOTOX, Allergan, Brazil) will be between 6 and 12 U/Kg of body mass, with a maximal possible dose of 200 U in compliance with the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Each vial of BT-A will be reconstituted with 3 to 5 mL of saline solution (NaCl 0.9%). The localization of the belly of the muscle will be determined with the children in ventral decubitus. Asepsis of the skin will be performed with 10% alcohol and none of the participants will receive sedation. The standardized program proposed by Ibrahin et al. (2007) will be used for the treatment of all children in both groups. One-hour sessions will be held three days a week on non-consecutive days. The protocol will last four months beginning with the administration of BT-A and will not undergo any alterations in this period. The program will consist of the following: Muscle stretching for all muscles that can be stretched, especially those submitted to BT-A. Use of a ankle-foot positioning orthosis for the correction of the deformity in plantar flexion of the ankle and to maintain the length and elasticity of the ankle muscles. Gait training exercises, stressing the action of the ankle dorsiflexors, with different obstacles placed in the walking path. Training in going up and down stairs. The tibialis anterior muscle will be selected (bilaterally), with surface electrodes (5 cm X 5 cm) positioned on the motor point of the muscle. The following are the NMES parameters: frequency of 30 Hz, pulse from 300 µs [19]
Age between five and 12 years. Spastic, diplegic cerebral palsy. Motor function classified as Level I, II or III by the GMCFS. Independent ambulation with or without the need for a gait-assistance device (walker or crutches). Dynamic equinus with indication for neuromuscular block with BT-A in the triceps surae. Availability for physical therapy twice a week for four months. The following inclusion criteria will also apply to one group of children: 1) degree of cooperation compatible with the administration of NMES and 2) tolerance to NMES at a motor threshold level (visible muscle contraction).
Neurological or orthopedic conditions unrelated to cerebral palsy. Orthopedic surgery on the lower limbs in the 12 months prior to selection. Surgery scheduled during the period of the study. Equinus not reducible to neutral (ankle at 0 degrees) or incompatible with the use of orthoses following the application of BT-A in the triceps surae.
Investigate the effect of NMES on dorsiflexor muscles in combination with motor physical therapy on static balance (oscillations from the center of pressure in the anteroposterior and mediolateral directions) in children with CP submitted to BT-A in the lower limbs in order to diminish spasticity. Static balance will be evaluated using a pressure platform (Medicapteurs Fusyo) This device measures oscillations in the center of pressure (COP) and contact time between the feet and the surface of the platform. The acquisition frequency will be 40 Hz. The children will be placed in an orthostatic position, barefoot, with arms alongside the body and eyes focused on a point marked at a distance of one meter positioned at the height of the glabella of each child. The evaluation will be carried out under two conditions for 30 seconds each: eyes open and eyes closed. The data will be recorded and interpreted using the Fusyo Analysis software program. 
Investigate the effect of NMES in the ankle dorsiflexor muscles in combination with motor physical therapy on functional balance, as assessed by the Berg Balance Scale, in children with CP submitted to BT-A in the lower limbs. The Berg Balance Scale will be used for the assessment of functional balance. This is a simple 14-item measure that addresses the performance of functional balance common to daily living. Each item has a five-option ordinal scale ranging from 0 to 4 points, with a maximal overall score of 56. The points are based on the time in which a position is maintained, the distance an upper limb is able to reach in front of the body and the time needed to complete the task. Execution time is approximately 30 minutes. The children will perform these tasks dressed, but barefoot.
Self-care program  focusing on the assistive devices effects for individuals with hand osteoatrhritis
Self-care program focusing on the Assistive Technology effects for patients with the hand OA
Step 1 - Conduct sample selection, through direct invitation, the weekly outpatient osteoarthritis. The sample will be 40 individuals.
Step 2 - Eligible patients will be invited to participate in the study, and if they accept, reading the consent form and savy will be held (IC). After signing the document,
The sample consists of 40 volunteers with the following inclusion criteria: Hand OA diagnostics (ACR); Be registered at the Hospital das Clinicas, Federal University of Pernambuco; minimum age 18 and maximum age of 90 years.
Surgical treatment or infiltration in the hands in the last 6 months;Treatment of occupational therapy and / or physical therapy or use of any TA feature (assist device or split) in the last 6 months; Diagnosis of another rheumatologic disease or musculoskeletal disease that compromise the hands. 
Improvement of occupational performance in patients with hands osteoarthritis that receive the proposed treatment instrument through Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (copm) from a minimum detectable difference of 2.0 points in the copm performance score, pre and post intervention (Falow-up of 3 months)
Improved quality of life , used  abbreviated version of the instrument Word Health Organization quality of life (WHOQOL- bref) 
Attention effects on handicap person
The effects of attention directed to movement parameters on motor behavior of handicap persons 
15 sessions of knesiotherapy treatment, with attention directed to movement parameters

The treatment will last 5 weeks, with 3 sessions a week of 50 minutes each.  5 groups of two subjects will be formed for the treatment. The protocol of each session will be video taped, controling the time of each activity for each of the 5 groups. A film of one person with toracic medular legion performing a demonstration of necessary task, adopting a modeling method from learner to learner (MAGIL, 2000; SCHIMIDT 
Healthy adults:  history of no muscular injury or not healed on dominant upper limb; no geometrical alterations on dominant upper limb; no reduction on normal joint amplitude of dominant upper limb; do not be overweight or obese.

Handicap adults: to have a minimum of 1yr of medular injury; Level A or B of American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA); realese from physical therapy treatment for a maximum of 2yr; trunk balance sufficient to sustain upper limbs at 90 degrees angle for at least 30sec.; do not have history of muscular injury or not healed on dominant upper limb; do not have geometrical alterations on dominant upper limb; do not have reduction on normal joint amplitude of dominant upper limb; ulcera pressure; urinary infections; depression; do not be overweight or obese.
Healthy adults:  to have history of muscular injury or not healed on dominant upper limb; geometrical alterations on dominant upper limb; reduction on normal joint amplitude of dominant upper limb; overweight or obesity.

Handicap adults: to have more than 1yr of medular injury; Level C or higher of American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA); realese from physical therapy treatment for more than 2yr; trunk balance insufficient to sustain upper limbs at 90 degrees angle for at least 30sec.; have history of muscular injury not healed or treated on dominant upper limb; geometrical alterations on dominant upper limb; reduction on normal joint amplitude of dominant upper limb; ulcera pressure; urinary infections; depression; overweight or obesity.
The functional action studied will be the transport of a 1 liter jar filled with water, with two experimental condition: C1 to the front and C2 to the top. The trunk coordenative behaviour and upper body will be described thru tridimencional cinematic sincronized with electromiography.   The variables are: 1) angular excursion 2) angular peak velocity 3) % movement time 4) linear peak velocity of the wrist, at coordenative axel X, Y and Z 5) time percentage for the peak at axel X,Y and Z 6) Total movement time  Electromiographic variables: 1) onset of movement 2) onset muscle duration 3) Muscle latency, calculated by the time  interval btw initial movement and onset instant 4) previous activation, onset duration btw 500ms before the movement and the begining of movement.  It is expected that the group without medular lesion (SLM) will show differences at the coordenative behaviour at C1 and C2 conditions, confirming the relationship btw motor organization and functional demand of the task.   It is expected that the group with medular lesion will show differences in coordination in relation to the group without medular lesion at C1 and C2 experimental conditions.  It is expected that the attentional direction treatment for the amplitude variability parameters, velocity and tension at efector structures, positively interfers at the trunk and dominante superior limb coordenative behaviour of the group with medular lesion at experimental conditions C1 and C2.     
1) Presentation of the results to members of the Paraná Handicap Association.  2) Submission of the results to international journals.
Treatment of bile duct stones of difficult removal compared two endoscopic methods: Stone fragmentation with electrohydraulic lithotripsy (EHL) X  balloon dilation of the major duodenal papilla 
Endoscopic treatment of bile duct stones of difficult removal compared two methods: Use of Direct Visualization System of Bile Ducts (
100 patients will be allocated into 2 groups after the diagnosis of bile ducts stones considered difficult to remove. In group 1 patients will undergo an endoscopic sphincterotomy which is the surgical cutting of duodenal papilla (where the liver ducts arrive in the intestine). After this, a cholangioscopy procedure will be conducted, and that means the introduction of a small endoscope in the liver ducts to view the stone and after that perform fragmentation, called lithotripsy, making possible the removal of the stones. In group 2 after cutting the papilla of the duodenum (endoscopic sphincterotomy), a dilation will be performed and that is an expansion of this opening, using a balloon that is inflated in the region, increasing its diameter and allowing more space for the passage of the stone.
Over 18 years and both genders (male and female). Capable of consent, agreed and signed the Term of Consent. Bile duct stones considered difficult to remove. Biliary stones in bile ducts 

Age below 18 years. Incapable of giving consent. Pregnant. Gastrointestinal bypass surgery with previous reconstructions as Billroth II or Roux-en-Y. Patients with signs of severe acute cholangitis requiring biliary drainage with fast plastic stent and minimal or no contrast infusion. Patients with previous liver transplantation.

Effectiveness of the two techniques under investigation. Effectiveness: capacity of the technique to successfully treat the condition (complex biliary stones), with complete removal of all the stones from the bile ducts, in a way that patient will not have this condition at the end of procedure. This will be verified at the end of the procedure performing a control cholangiography post stone removal.
Safety of the two techniques under investigation. Safety: analyzed with the occurrence of adverse events, the frequency, type, if related or not to the procedure and severity. Adverse events were verified during procedure, in 24 hours and one week.
Physical exercise for subtle memory problems 
Predictor factors of the cognitive outcome in subjects with mild cognitive impairment submitted to aerobic physical exercise 
Selected subjects (N=80) will be submitted to a supervised physical exercise program. The program is based on treadmill walking, twice a week, for 24 weeks. Subjects are submitted to a effort test before beginning the program, to determine the intensity of the exercises.   
Patients with mild cognitive impairment 
Individuals with cognitive decline of sufficient intensity for the diagnosis of dementia will be excluded, as well as individuals with psychiatric disorders in activity (not in remission now). Other exclusion criteria include clinical illness or physical disability that prevents the achievement of aerobic exercise, auditory and visual impair cognitive assessment, scores on the questionnaire functionality Pfeffer greater than four and illiteracy. Here we characterize illiteracy to less than one year of formal education and inability to read the phrase 
Found outcome: In the analysis of the first 40 subjects, we found reduction in the resting metabolism of the rostral posterior cingulate cortex, bilaterally.
Found outcome: In the analysis of the first 40 subjects, we found improvements on scales that measure: 1) Global cognition - ADAS-cog; 2) Visual memory - Wechsler Memory Scale - revised (WMS-R); 3) Visuospatial function - copy of the Rey-Osterrieth complex figure.
Treatment of the lower limb pain, which arise during the walks, for lack of circulation. Through temporary circulation interruption of upper limbs.
Remote ischemic preconditioning in patients with intermittent claudication
Fifty-two patients will be divided into three qrupos, respectively: A, B and C (control group).
In groups A and B will apply two tests on a treadmill with an interval of seven days between each test, which will be reported in the initial claudication distance and maximum distance traveled by patients.
 this study recruited patients complaining of typical intermitent claudication (IC) in one or both lower limbs, associated with absence or reduction of arterial pulses in the symptomatic member and/or ankle-brachial index 
 Arterial occlusion of both upper
 Presence of critical ischemia of lower limbs, characterized by pain at rest or ischemic ulcerations existence of the same.
The final analysis will be performed to compare the initial walk distance and total walk distance, in traedmill, observed before and after ischemic preconditioning, with each patient his own control. 
Also will be investigated a correlation between the variations found in the  claudication distances and ankle - brachial index of the patients
Evaluation of three Treatments of vivax Malaria
Safety and Efficacy Evaluation of Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy for the Treatment of Uncomplicated Plasmodium vivax Malaria
The study foresees the inclusion of 264 participants, which will be divided into 3 groups. The control group included 88 participants who will receive 150 mg Chloroquine produced by Farmaguinhos / Fiocruz + primaquine 15 mg produced by Farmaguinhos / Fiocruz orally for 7 consecutive days; Group 2 included 88 participants who will receive fixed-dose combination of artesunate and mefloquine, 100 +200 mg tablets produced by Farmaguinhos / Fiocruz + primaquine 15 mg produced by Farmaguinhos / Fiocruz, orally for 7 consecutive days; group 3 included 88 participants who will receive fixed-dose combination of artemether and lumefantrine tablets 20 + 120 mg produced by CIPLA + primaquine 15 mg produced by Farmaguinhos / Fiocruz, orally for 7 consecutive days.
Age between 18 and 70, or weight between 50 kg and 80 kg; Mono-infection by P. Vivax confirmed by microscopy; Asexual parasite count 
Presence of clinical conditions related to malaria vivax that require hospitalization (coma, respiratory dysfunction or severe anemia); Presence of febrile conditions  due to another disease besides malaria (for example, measles, acute infection of the respiratory tract, diarrhea with dehydration) or other chronic or severe comorbidities (for example, kidney, cardiac or chronic liver disease, and HIV/AIDS); Use of medicaments that can interfere in the pharmacokinetics of the antimalarial medicaments under study; Hypersensibility to the medicaments under study; History of the presence of deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase; Any significant disease or clinical findings during the medical evaluation or physical examination that the investigator considers might interfere in the study; Pregnancy (confirmed by ? HCG) or breastfeeding; Use of antimalarial treatment less than 63 days prior to the symptoms.
Proportion of adequate clinical and parasitological response and overall success or treatment failure at day 28, 42 and 63.    Therapeutic success is defined as absence of parasitaemia on day 28, 42 and 63 regardless of axillary temperature in patients who have not previously met any of the criteria for treatment failure. 
• Assessment of serum levels of chloroquine, mefloquine and lumefantrine, measured on filter paper on days 0,7, 14 21, 28, 42 and 63
Effects of Body Awareness Therapy in heart rate variability of university students
Body Awareness Therapy in heart rate variability of university students
Experimental group: 32 college students (men and women) from 18 to 25 years had their autonomic modulation monitored at three stages (before the intervention, during and after): supine position at rest (for 30 minutes), during body awareness therapy (for 40 minutes) and again at rest in supine position (for 30 minutes).
Control group (no treatment): 32 college students (men and women) from 18 to 25 years had their autonomic modulation monitored in three stages: supine position at rest (for 30 minutes), at rest in sitting position (for 40 minutes) and again at rest in supine position (for 30 minutes).
Healthy volunteers; both genders; aged 18-25 years; higher education students
Smokers; presence of renal; cardiovascular and / or respiratory disease; make use of drugs that influence the autonomic activity of the heart
Increased rates of rMSSD and SDNN after intervention with body awareness therapy, verified by analyzing the heart rate variability, captured by Polar S810i, based on comparison of the values of the indexes in the pre and post-intervention moments, and before and after rest, for the control group.
Evaluation levels of anxiety, depression and stress, verified by questionnaires analysis , with values greater than 9 to possible anxiety and / or depression in Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and for symptoms of stress, will be considered score equal or above 7 in stage I, equal or above 4 in phase II, and equal or above 9 in stage III in Inventory of Symptoms of Stress - Lipp. 
Treadmill walking in subjects with Parkinson
Effects of treadmill walking training with additional body load in subjects with Parkinson
The training protocol will occurr over 4 consecutive weeks, with three weekly sessions of 30 minutes each. Participants allocated to one of three groups (experimental I, II experimental and control) will be subject to the following conditions:

 -Control group: 10 individuals with Parkinson
Idiopathic Parkinson
Blood pressure (SBP) and systolic and diastolic values above, respectively, 200 mmHg and 110 mmHg before and / or after training;
Heart rate (HR) above the permitted submaximal values, calculated by formula [FCsub = 0.75 x (220 - age)]
Expected Outcome: Increased speed, stride length, step cadence and percentage of time balance and reduction in the percentage of support time and double support, the group submitted to training with the addition of 10% load.  For these outcomes will be analyzed: spatial and temporal variables - speed (m / s), stride length (m), stride length (m), cadence (steps / min), percentage of the time balance (%), percent support time (%) and percentage of double support time (%).  Expected outcome: Increase in measurements of angular variables.  For this outcome will be analyzed: angular variables - the hip, the maximum extension in support maximum bending in the balance and range of motion (ROM) of the hip, knee, supporting the maximum extent, the maximum flexion in swing, the angle knee ROM at initial contact and knee and ankle, the maximum dorsiflexion in swing, plantar flexion of the fingers when collecting soil at the end of the stance phase (toe-off), the ankle angle at initial contact and ADM ankle.  
- Expected outcome: reduction in the values of the activity domain of daily living and motor examination.  For this outcome will be analyzed to assess the scale unified Parkinson's disease (UPDRS) before and after training, which assesses the severity of Parkinson's disease, so clinical and functional. Scores range from 0 to 4, where higher scores are related to a greater degree of severity of PD. 
Assessing the effect of a web-based psycotherapy for alcoholists
Web-based brief psychotherapies for users alcohol and other drugs
Will be undertaken a randomized clinical trial in which participants will be allocated into one of two study conditions: (a) Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy face to face (CBT face to face) (N = 64) and (b) Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy by internet (CBT internet) (N = 64). Interventions in both the CBT group face to face and CBT Group internet will be adapted from Project MATCH. The protocol will consist of 12 therapy sessions theoretically based in the Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy, the Prevention of Relapse and principles of Motivational Interviewing. The sessions will be weekly and will last for one hour each. Both interventions will occur in the Centro de Psicologia Aplicada da UFJF. Therapy sessions in the CBT group by internet will be performed using the OpenFire server that will act as a gateway to the jitsi protocol - communications program that allows the realization of audio and video calls, as well as instant messaging from chat window.
male; alcohol dependent diagnosis; between 18 and 65 years; not be abstinent during 30 days prior to admission to treatment 
abuse or dependent diagnosis of other drugs, exception of tobacco; have participated in specialized treatment for alcohol and other drugs problems in the last three months; meet criteria for severe mental disorders
The primary outcome considered is the number of doses consumed on the day the participant drank and the number of that were abstinent during the last 30 days prior to evaluation. To measure this outcome, there will be two questions prepared by the researchers themselves "Over the past 30 days, on average, how many alcoholic drinks you consumed on days when drinking? How many days drank?"; and "Over the past 30 days, how many days stayed abstinent?".
Number of days attended the sessions as adhesion to treatment; impairment of cognitive functions from the Mini Mental State Examination, severity level of problems due to alcohol use in the last 30 days from the area "alcohol" to Addiction Severity Index version 6; evaluation of the diagnosis of addiction to alcohol and other drugs and mental disorders from the Brazilian version of the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview; evaluation of personal beliefs about alcohol from the Inventário de Expectativas e Crenças Pessoais Acerca do Álcool; assessment of the motivation for change from the Brazilian version of the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment Scale and Readiness Ruler for Change, the assessment of Therapeutic Alliance from the Working Alliance Inventory (WAI) and the assessment of the patient's satisfaction with the intervention.
A school-based intervention to improve sense of coherence and children
A school-based intervention to improve sense of coherence and children
Data will be collected from 292 children, 146 in the intervention and 146 in the control group. The control group do not receive any intervention. Children in the intervention group will attend activities developed by trained teachers at the school environment, to improve their sense of coherence. The intervention includes 7 weekly activity sessions developed with children, during a 2 months period.
The activities include:
Children enrolled in the fourth and fifth years in the selected schools.
Children intellectually and physically uncapable of responding to the questionnaires.
Oral health related quality of life improvement, measured by means of the Child Perceptions questionnaire for 8-10 (CPQ8-10) and 11.14 (CPQ11-14) years-old children, with a decrease in the questionnaire score after intervention. 
Sense of coherence improvement, mensured using the SOC-13 scale, with a decrease in the questionnaire score after intervention. Dental caries, according to DMF-T Index, with a decrease in the index. Gingival bleeding, according to Community periodontal index (CPI), with a decrease in the index.
Effects of Patellar Taping in Subjects with Knee Pain
Influence of Patellar Taping on Baropodometric Characteristics of Subjects with Patellofemoral Pain
Will be performed a randomized double-blind, parallel with three groups, conducted in patients with pain in the anterior knee and in subjects without knee symptoms. Participants must be between 18 and 35 years old. Thirty women with pain in the anterior knee will be allocated in two groups: a group of 15 women who receive a adhesive tape in the patellar region with medial traction, other group will consist of 15 women who will receive the tape in the patellar region without traction (placebo). A third group will be formed by 15 women without musculoskeletal symptoms in the lower limbs that will receive the tape in the patellar region with medial traction. In all groups is performed only one application of the tape, the participants evaluated with and without the use of adhesive tape.
Women aged between 18 and 35 years, with pain in the anterior knee insidious onset, no history of trauma in the region. Duration of symptoms for longer than 12 weeks and triggered by  perform two of the following activities: up or down stairs, squatting, sitting for long stay; while practicing physical activity. On physical examination must present pain in two of four tests: isometric contraction of the quadriceps, squats, palpation of the medial or lateral patellar and step down. To compose the control group will be selected women without musculoskeletal symptoms in the lower limb.
Women who underwent physical therapy for the lumbar spine, pelvis and lower limbs in the last 6 months prior to collection. With a history of neurological diseases and surgery of the lower limbs.
Changes in baropodometric variables (peak pressure, contact area, displacement of the center of pressure) will be monitored through the capture of plantar pressure distribution during functional activities with and without the use of tape. We expected that subjects who will receive a tape with medial traction modify the motor strategy, changing the peak pressure and the displacement of the center of pressure during functional activities.
Changes in pain intensity will be measured by the visual analog scale of pain before and after application of the tape and during functional activities. We expected that subjects who will receive a tape with medial traction will experience clinically important improvement in pain reduction.
Use of TENS for reducing pain after cesarean
Effect of TENS in pain after cesarean
Treatment group: transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for pain relief will be applied at a frequency of 100 Hz, pulse width of 100 microseconds, for 20 minutes. In the treatment group 
Women undergoing cesarean delivery with incisional pain intensity greater than three on a numeric scale with 15 years or more. Mothers who are in the period between eight and 12 hours postpartum. Physical status I or II, according to the American Society Anesthesiology. Absence of hearing impairment or visual communication, or even have no cognitive disorder / psychiatric impairment. These women should be admitted to the maternity João Firpo Hospital Santa Isabel (Aracaju / Se).
Women with some post-cesarean complications. Mothers with their newborns in the intensive care unit neonatal. Women who had prior use of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation. Those with contraindications to the use of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation. Mothers with an inability to understand the instructions or consent for the study. Women with hepatic impairment, renal or cardiovascular. Neurological disorders or lung disease. Heart disease. Women taking antidepressants. Use of psychoactive drugs or glucocorticosteroids in the week prior to the study. Use of pacemakers. Postpartum women with morbid obesity.

Reduction in pain intensity at rest and in motion, increased range of motion of rotation of the lumbar spine and trunk flexion, improves skin sensitivity and deep, improved functionality. To evaluate the reduction of the pain will be used numerical pain scale of 0 to 10, after coughing, in flexion and trunk rotation and during the Timed Up and Go test, the pressure pain will be evaluated with the algometer, range of motion are assessed by fleximeter, the sensitivity will be assessed by monofilament, and functionality through the Timed Up and Go.
Reduced consumption of analgesic medications. Will be measured on the charts of the mothers 24 hours after treatment with Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation.
Effects of two types of weight training: traditional and blood flow restriction on the strength, power, muscle mass and performance in daily activities in the elderly
Effects of two types of weight training: conventional and partial restriction of blood flow on the muscle strength and power, muscle quality and functional performance in elderly
Experimental conventional training group: 20 women aged from 55 years, held 32 sessions of the squat exercise with free bar with three sets of ten repetitions with an intensity of 70% of maximum strength with 60 seconds rest between sets.
Experimental group strength training with blood flow restriction: 20 women aged from 55 years, held 32 sessions of free squat exercise with bar with four sets of 15 repetitions and an intensity of 30% of maximum strength with an applied cuff thigh to restrict blood flow. The cuff pressure was 50% of the blood flow and occlusion pressure during the intervals between sets, the pressure was 50 mmHg. The intervals are 30 seconds between sets.
Ages from 55 years; show complete functional independence; be physically active; not perform strength training in the last six months; not have the disease:
arthritis, arthritis, neuropathy, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; not present cardiac arrhythmias; deep vein thrombosis; not having suffered myocardial infarction within 6 months prior to the intervention period; not reporting muscle or joint injury in the lower limbs; do not use heart pacemaker; submit ankle brachial index situated between 0.90 and 1.40; speed normal pulse wave; Normal central systolic pressure.
Do not get minimum frequency of 75% to the training sessions
A significant difference was observed (p <0.05) for the cross-sectional area to the percentage change (M%) 7.7% for the blood flow restriction group (BFRG) and 4.49% for the training group force (TGF), but no difference between the methods (p> 0.05); was no difference in muscle strength (p <0.05) with M% = 21.97% for BFRG, and M% = 37.15 for the TGF, there was no difference between the training methods (p> 0.05 ); there was a significant difference (p <0.05) for the functional tests: supine up with M%= - 28.70% for p BFRG and M% = - 13,20 for the TGF, the test sitting and standing of chair the M% = 36.80 for BFRG and M% = 33.83 for the TGF for the test timed up and go test the M% = - 19.47 for BFRG and M% = - 10.76 to TGF. There was no significant difference (p <0.05) in muscle power and functional testing of normal and maximum walking speed.
There was no significant difference (p> 0.05) in muscle power, muscle strength and functional tests of lifting the supine position and usual and maximum speeds walk after 10 weeks of intervention. The functional test and sit up from the chair and go up and timed showed significant difference after 10 weeks of intervention (p <0.05).
Influence of a Pilates exercise program on bone mass in elderly sedentary
Influence of a Pilates exercise program on bone mass in elderly sedentary
The intervention will be done through a Pilates exercise program: after valued, older GE (experimental group, n = 12) will be invited to participate in a Pilates exercise program, which will be held 50 sessions, 30 minutes duration with frequency 2 times a week for about 6 months of the intervention.
The program will consist of Mat Pilates exercises, Cadillac, Reformer and Chair where strength exercises will be worked, flexibility and balance in various postures and muscle groups using movements in open or closed loop; emphasizing the paraspinal muscles, abdominal and lower limbs.
Age between 60 and 69 years old; female; be sedentary.
Size of the target sample: 24
Being a smoker; have serious neurological and musculoskeletal disorders
A Pilates exercise program increases bone mass in elderly, sedentary for six months in about 5%.  Bone mass will be evaluated through a bone density testing.
A Pilates exercise program increases muscle mass in elderly, sedentary by approximately 10%.  The amount of lean mass will be measured by bone densitometry in the analysis of total body composition.
Effect of the treatment of oral appliance for obstructive sleep apnea on heart rate variability and on structural and functional characteristics of carotid artery.
Randomized clinical trial, controled, duble blind, four arms, to evaluate the impact of the treatment of oral appliance for obstructive sleep apnea on heart rate variability and on structural and functional characteristics of carotid artery.
Polysomnography, ecodoppler, heart rate variability prior the study. After, the sample will be divided in 2 groups with 35 subjects, one group will use the placebo and, the other will use the oral appliance to treat sleep apnea.After 6 months, all exams will be done with oral appliance in situ.
Man and woman, at list with 20 years old, ody mass index lower than 30, with no co-morbidities, apnea/hipopnea index moderate to severe, opening of 40mm, mandibular protriusion 7mm, periodontal health.
Psychiatric deseases, use fo any drugs that interfer in sleep, severe temporomandibular dysfunction.
Heart rate variability analysis to compare the effect of oral appliance and placebo on autonomic nervous system fuction.
Polysomnogram to evaluate and compare the effect of oral appliance e placebo for other  sleep variables.
Restorations evaluation in primary teeth
Adhesive restorations in primary molars - a longitudinal clinical study 
Group I control: 45 participants with deciduous molar tooth restored with adhesive and composite resin system; Group II test: 45 participants with deciduous molar tooth restored cement glass ionomer resin; Group III test: 45 participants with deciduous molar tooth restored with self-etching adhesive system and composite resin P90 (3M)
Each patient may have included in the search 1 to 8 teeth. We included 135 teeth in 66 patients.
Patients aged 6 to 11 years; both genres; bearing teeth with active caries lesions limited to deep dentin / occluded proximal-occlusal surface of primary molars; absence of clinical diagnosis of pulp exposure, fistula, edema of the periodontal tissues and tooth mobility incompatible with stage of root resorption; absence of clinical symptoms of irreversible pulpitis; such as spontaneous pain or pressure sensitivity; the extent of the carious lesion should be such that complete / incomplete removal of decayed tissue not run the risk of pulp exposure as determined by clinical and radiographic evaluation; absence of radiolucencies in the inter-radicular regions (bifurcation) or periapical or thickening of the periodontal spaces which indicate the presence of irreversible pulp pathologies or necrosis; absence of internal or external root resorption.
Pulp exposure during cavity preparation procedure
Failure rate of restorations in 18 months, measured by the modified USPHS criteria (United States Public Health Service). A difference of 25% between groups was estimated. A 15.4% failure rate was observed in Group I, 13.2% in group II, and 9.5 in group III, with no statistical difference between the groups.
Secondary outcomes aren´t expected.
Analysis of body balance and muscle activity before and after reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament (acl)
Analysis of body oscillation and myoelectric activity before and after reconstruction of ACL (anterior cruciate ligament)
Experimental group: 12 men with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury unilateral without associated diseases, after ACL reconstruction surgery, subjects will receive physical therapy three times a week for 6 months in Clinical Physiotherapy School of the Federal University of Paraíba (UFPB), depending on the phase of the rehabilitation process, will be used within the proposed protocol, the following techniques: cryotherapy; proper positioning member (guidelines); passive and active mobilization; flexibility exercises; the open kinetic chain (OKC) and closed kinetic chain (CKC); exercises on a stationary bicycle; isometric exercises; exercises with weight bearing; proprioceptive training; strengthening exercises for hip, knee and ankle; training bipedal stabilization, balance and gait; running and plyometrics, meeting the following objectives: to reduce pain symptoms, edema and inflammation; prevent muscle atrophy; restore full range of motion; improve neuromuscular control and proprioceptive function; improve muscle strength; promote functionality in the march; facilitate the return to labor and sports activities.
 Control group: 12 men without ACL injuries, do not perform any intervention.
Complete unilateral ACL injury (anterior drawer and Lachman + MRI); 
Prediction of surgical reconstruction and have no other clinical finding of dysfunction or injury in the affected limb; 
Failure to attend one of the reviews; Interruption of treatment.
6 months post-reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament and the flexor torque knee extensor and abductor hip, quantified by a portable digital dynamometer (DD-300, Instrutherm Ltd., Brazil) are equal to the contralateral limb. With this, the index of inter-members symmetry (comparing affected limb member and not affected) must be less than or equal to 10%.
Decreased body sway measured by shifting the center of gravity through the Biodex Balance System (BBS) and increased myoelectric activity of the knee after 6 months of ACL reconstruction, for the record electromyographic activity we used a electromyography (W4X8 model, Biometrics Ltd ., UK) of 8 channels.
Study of the use of LASER and Led light and exercises in Herniated Lumbar Disc


Study of the Efficacy of Laser, Led and Exercises Herniated Lumbar Disc
Effects of low power LASER and LED associated with exercises and positioning in Lumbar Disc Herniation: a randomized clinical  trial

Study group: 60 patients of both genders, aged between 18 and 60 years, with Herniated Lumbar Disc (HDL) located in the intervertebral L4-L5 and L5-S1 spaces, associated with Radicular Pain (RP). The 60 patients will be divided in three groups, upon an aleatory randomization: Group 1 (G1,LASER AsGa 904 nm-75W, n=20), Grup 2 (G2 LASER Placebo n=20) and Grup 3 (G3 LED 945 nm  n=20). Evaluation: patients will be evaluated at baseline to identify functional impairment upon anamnesis and physical examination. The quantification of low back and radicular pain will be made by the Visual Analog Scale of Pain, EVA. Flexion and extension of the lumbar spine and the angle flexion of the hip with the knee extended, Lasègue Sign, will be measured with the universal goniometer before and after the intervention. The functional limitation will be evaluated by the Functional Disability Questionnaire of Oswestry. Lateral position contralateral to radicular pain for physical therapy procedures will be established. At the end of the treatment all patients will be submitted to a final evaluation. Procedures: Patients in Group 1 and Group 3 will undergo  low power phototherapy associated with the sequence of  expiration movements and flexion exercises. Group 2 will be submitted to a placebo LASER followed by expiration movements and flexion exercises. The laser stimulation period will be of 1.44 minutes using 4J in each point.
The beam diameter at the point of LED treatment will be 1.2 cm2 consisting of seven LED emitters, with exposure time of 40 s / cm 2 per point.
Patients with HDL of L4,L5 and L5,S1 spaces with radiculopathy; patients referred by a neurosurgeon, neurologist, orthopedist and rheumatologist; compatibility between the MRI image and clinical symptoms.
Presence of low back pain without radicular manifestation; patients undergoing any surgery in the lumbar spine; pregnancy; fracture or tumor in the lumbar spine; history of collagen disorder; history of neoplasic disease;  patients with disc herniation in the spaces L2,L3 and L3,L4; individuals with pacemaker or with skin diseases.
Significant reduction in lumbar and radicular pain scores measured by at least 20% less pain in a visual analoge scale of pain in the experimental group treated with 904 nm GaAs laser, positioning and flexion exercises  when compared to the other groups.
Significant improvement of functional capacity, measured by a minimal reduction of 40% in the Oswestry Disability Index, in the experimental group treated with 904 nm GaAs laser, positioning and flexion exercises  when compared to the other groups. 
Aquatic physiotherapy in pain, daily activities and quality of life in older people with knee Osteoarthritis
Effectiveness of aquatic physiotherapy in the perception of pain, functional capacity and quality of life of older adults with knee Osteoarthritis: randomized clinical trial
The intervention program will have a duration of 12 weeks, with every three days a week and last approximately 30 minutes.
Volunteers will be randomly allocated into 2 groups. Aquatic intervention group of 25 elderly volunteers with knee osteoarthritis will be submitted to aquatic physical therapy program in a therapeutic pool with temperature maintained between 32° C and 34° C. The intervention program will consist of motor coordination and agility exercises; flexibility (stretching) of the legs and arms muscles; Timeline perception and reaction speed through activities with balls; Balance: standing up on boards; muscle training: doing resistance exercises for arms and legs. Control group - Inactive: 25 elderly subjects with knee osteoarthritis who do not perform any type of exercise or other physical therapy.
Volunteers diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis; both genders; age above 60 years.
Volunteers with severe cardiac and respiratory diseases; fibromyalgia; epilepsy; knee replacement or hip; inability to walk independently; otitis; sores on the skin; mycoses; hydrophobia.
Increased flexibility through Wells test (around 5 cm), improved functional capacity through the TUG test / Timed Up and Go (mean time less than 10 seconds), reductions in scores on the WOMAC index / Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (from 20 to 30 points in most volunteers) and quality of life assessed by the WHOQOL-bref (between 70-80% in physical, mental and social domains) in both exercises after completion programs of interventions. In the control group it is expected to occur no changes in the values of any variable analyzed.
The results in both intervention groups are statistically better (considering p <0.05) than the control group, the following variables: pain, stiffness and function assessed by WOMAC index, flexibility through bank Wells, dynamic balance by means the TUG and quality of life analyzed by WHOQOL-Bref after the end of treatment.
Comparison of methods of oral rehydration therapy in children with acute diarrhea.
Comparison of methods of oral rehydration therapy in children with acute diarrhea.
Group A (standard):Thirty-four children received during the maintenance phase of the standard Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) with 90mmol/L sodium, 111mmol/L glucose and osmolarity of 311mmol/L, in equal volumes of the abnormal losses, in addition to free water and diet appropriate for their age.Until the cessation of diarrhea.
Group B (test): Thirty-six children in this group had made the replacement of abnormal losses with the same solution with a calculated volume that results from subtraction of the ingest the liquid diet (milk formula, breast milk, liquid soup and juice and water intake), using a formula for Balance Intake Minus Loss (BIML) in which BIML is equal to intake liquid in milliliter (ILmL) minus abnormal losses milliliter (ALmL). Formula: BIML=ILmL-ALml . Until the cessation of diarrhea
 Male children 2-30 months old
 Pre-classified with acute diarrhea and  dehydration.
 Only breastfeeding nutrition
 With severe malnutrition
Reduction of the duration of diarrhea (hours), as well as stool output (ml / kg / h) due to a lower water intake (ml / kg / day) without an increase in dehydration. Water Balance held every 8hours: All losses (faeces, vomit and urine output) collected in containers and clothing pre-weighed were measured on precision scales (OHAUS Triple Beam Balance Model, 2610 g capacity 5lb 2oz). All oral intake was measured using the technique of rest-intake using a precision scale (DIGIPESO, model DP-3000, 3 kg capacity and accuracy 0.5 g).  
No impairment in weight gain or caloric intake, No increase in the number of vomiting, nor disorder hydroelectrolytical. The weight of each naked child was obtained in the same time (06, 14 and 22h) and before the meals using digital scale balance model BP Fillizola Baby™ with accuracy of 5grams. For the  measurement of caloric intake and vomiting, was performed the same procedure performed for the  primary outcomes. Electrolyte abnormalities (hypernatremia (Na> 150mmol / l), hyponatremia (Na <130 mmol / l) and hypokalemia (K <3 mmol / l)) were evaluated by laboratory tests.
The effect of pilates exercise on vagina strength
The influence of the pilates method in the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles of
student at open university to elderly people, unapi/ufms
Intervention group: 30 volunteers started the project however only 10 healty women completed the treatment through a program of  ground Pilates exercise (12-week), 2 times a week, totaling 24 sessions. Were evaluated before and after the training protocol by examining perineometry and the vaginal palpation test, standardized by the PERFECT scheme.

social volunteers; eutrophic, female; non smokers; age of 50 years; Sedentary and signed an informed consent form.
Women alcoholics; with clinical diagnosis of pelvic floor dysfunction; with a history of urinary tract infection; with history of previous gynecological surgery; with neurological or endocrine-metabolic disorders. Women who are allergic to latex.
The practice of exercises based on the Pilates Method change the contractility of the pelvic floor muscles after intervention found an increased pressure during voluntary contraction, 22.25 cm H2O (p <0.001), evaluated by perineometry pelvic floor in healthy women
Secondary outcomes are expected not
A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of Intranasal Esketamine Plus an Oral Antidepressant in Elderly Participants with Treatment-resistant Depression
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multicenter, Active-controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy,  Safety, and Tolerability of Intranasal Esketamine Plus an Oral Antidepressant in Elderly  Subjects with Treatment-resistant Depression
Intranasal Esketamine plus Oral Antidepressant Group; Approximately 148 eligible participants will be randomly assigned in a ratio of 1: 1 (n = 74 per treatment arm) to receive double-blind intranasal treatment with escetamine [28 mg, 56 mg or 84 mg] or placebo, starting with a dose of 28 mg on Day 1. The intranasal treatment sessions (escetamine or placebo) will occur twice a week. In addition, all participants will begin a new open-label oral antidepressant on Day 1 to be taken daily for the duration of this phase. The designated oral antidepressan
Study population will include older men and women, 65 years of age (inclusive) and above, meeting the Manual of diagnostic criteria Diagnostic and Statistical of Mental Disorders (5th edition, DSM-5) for single episode of MDD (if MDD single episode, the duration shall be 2 years) or MDD recurrent without psychotic features, based on clinical assessment and confirmed by the International Mini Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI). In addition, the research participant must have a total score of Inventory Symptomatology Depressiva Evaluated by Medical 30 items (IDS-C30) of 34, which corresponds to moderate depression severa.No early screening / prospective observational phase, research participants should be submitted no response to 2, but 5, oral antidepressant treatments administered at an appropriate dose and a suitable duration, as assessed using the response Questionnaire Treatment antidepressant - Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH-ATRQ) and documented by medical history and pharmacy records / prescription for the current episode of depression. At the start of screening / prospective observational phase, the research participant must be one of those currently taking antidepressant treatments with non-major depressive episode documentada.O response current research participant and the treatment response to antidepressant treatments used in the present depressive episode ( assessed retrospectively) should be considered valid for participation in a clinical trial based on a Qualification Assessment Centre Independent. The Qualification Assessment Centre Independent is a tool to facilitate the selection of research participants for clinical studies of MDD, with a goal to ensure the inclusion of research participants that reflect the current state of disease, and that these symptoms can be measured reliably with appropriate measuring tools
Potential research participants will be excluded from participation in the study if they have previously shown no response of depressive symptoms to escetamina or ketamine in the current major depressive episode, all four options oral antidepressant treatment available for the phase double-blind induction (ie, duloxetine, escitalopram, sertraline and venlafaxine XR) a larger current depressive episode (based on MGHATRQ), or an appropriate course of treatment with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the current major depressive episode, defined as at least 7 treatments with unilateral ECT. Research participants who currently have an implant to vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) or who received deep brain stimulation (DBS) in this major depressive episode will be deleted. Survey participants will also be excluded if they have a DSM-5 diagnostic current or previous a psychotic or MDD disorder with psychosis, bipolar and related disorders (confirmed by MINI), obsessive compulsive disorder comorbid, neurodegenerative disorder (eg., Disease Alzheimer
The primary efficacy endpoint will be the total MADRS score at the end of double-blind induction phase. The evaluation of MADRS be performed by remote independent evaluators during the study. The MADRS is a range evaluated by the physician designed to measure the severity of depression and detect changes due to antidepressant treatment. The MADRS evaluates apparent sadness, declared sadness, inner tension, sleep, appetite, concentration, tiredness, level of interest, pessimistic thoughts and suicidal thoughts.
Baseline change in life and health quality related to participant-reported health assessed by EuroQol-5 Dimension-5 level (EQ-5D-5L) at the end of double-blind induction phase. The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a health outcome measure, designed primarily for self-completion by respondents. It consists of the descriptive system EQ-5D-5L and visual analog scale EQ (EQ-VAS). The system description may be represented as a state of health. Self-assessment EQVAS records the assessment of the respondent's general state of health itself at the conclusion, on a scale from 0 to 100
Creating a new program of exercise for heart disease
Creation of a new method of exercise prescription for phase II of the cardiac rehabilitationprogram   for patients with coronary artery disease (first protocol)
Group I: 37 men or women, with heart failure, with age more than 50 years old 

Group I will received the prescription of exercises according to the ACSM guidelines for phase II cardiac rehabilitation program. The treatment protocol consisted of aerobic  and resistance exercises for upper and lower limbs.
coronariophatic patients with ischemic scintigraphy; transluminal coronary angioplasty; acute myocardial postinfarction; with left ventricular ejection fraction 
muscle or osteoarticulars lesions induzed by exercise; failure to comply with the 36 sessions of the program or cardiovascular events that prevented the permanence in the program.
- It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to improve the VO2 peak and anerobic threshold , - It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to better body composition with lean mass and fat mass reduction - It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to improve the improvement in muscle strength.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Exercises to strengthen the perineum after childbirth.
Effects of a training program of pelvic floor muscles after childbirth.
Were performed strengthening exercises for the pelvic floor muscles after childbirth. Women included in the study were divided into treatment group and control group. The treatment group completed 8 weeks of supervised exercise for the physiotherapist responsible for the research project. These exercises started about 40 days postpartum and were conducted individually with a frequency of twice a week and lasted approximately 40 minutes per session. The control group received no intervention or guidance on exercises.
Inclusion criteria were maternal age between 18 and 35 years, parous women (2-4 children) and late postpartum vaginal delivery of a single fetus at term (in current and previous births).
Postpartum women were excluded who required the use of forceps during vaginal delivery (current and past births), women who underwent vaginal delivery of babies over 4 kg and below 2.5 kg (current and past births) in women who have had surgery perineal region, women with urinary symptoms before, during or after pregnancy and who performed perineal exercises before or during pregnancy.
Verification of vaginal muscle strength by digital palpation, which will ask the patient to contract the perineal muscles and the researcher will give a note based on the Oxford scale (Bo and Finckenhagen, 2003), graduated from 0 to 5. This is a subjective assessment of muscle strength. After 15 minutes of the evaluation of muscle strength by palpation bidigital mentioned above, there will be an objective assessment of strength through the vaginal perineometer. This unit graduate the strength of the patient through a vaginal probe with a pressure sensor will show the strength of the perineal muscle contraction, performed by the patient.
Evaluation of the perception of changes in sexual activity through a questionnaire prepared by the researcher responsible for this research.
The use of transcranial electrical current stimulation and physical therapy exercise for rehabilitation of patients after stroke
The use of transcranial direct current stimulation and therapeutic exercise for rehabilitation of individuals after stroke
The subjects will be allocated randomly by lottery into 4 groups. The subjects allocated to I (43 subjects) group held conventional physiotherapy treatment (targeted exercises for the upper and lower paretic limbs and trunk) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) placebo type, serves as a control for the other groups. The subjects assigned to the II (43 subjects) in addition to conventional physiotherapy group will receive an exercise protocol of weight transfer. The subjects assigned to group III (43 subjects) in addition to conventional physiotherapy receive application of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Have the subjects allocated to the IV group (43 subjects), made the conventional physiotherapy along with the exercise protocol and application of tDCS. 
For intervention by transcranial direct current stimulation, the correct placement of the electrodes on the territory of M1 (primary motor cortex), will be determined using the international 10-20 EEG electrode system. The current is applied across two electrodes (anode and cathode) surface soaked in saline. For assistance through the transfer protocol weight exercises will be applied during the postures sitting, kneeling and standing, while walking, during changes of postures and exercises rolling over the paretic limb. All these exercises have the purpose of increasing the displacement of body weight for the paretic limb.
Medical diagnosis of strok; age between 30 and 80 years;hemiparesis; asymmetry in weight shift; must be able to cooperate with training; independent gait with or without auxiliary equipment running; standing for 5 minutes without support and without bracing.
Over 10 years post stroke; cognitive impairment; other neurologic disorders; orthopedic problems; hypertension or decompensated arrhythmia; neglect or apraxia; severe visual impairment uncorrected; dizziness; presence of metal implant; headache constant and no diagnosis; history of seizures.
Improved motor function of the affected upper limb, measured by the Fugl Meyer scale. It will be considered a clinically important difference (CID) an average increase of 4.25 – 7.25 points in the Fugl Meyer scale (Page et al., 2012).
Level of asymmetry in weight-bearing between lower limbs detected by a posturographic examination.  Will be considered a index less than 7% (on the average, the level of asymmetry after stroke range between 8 to 13% (Marigold and Eng, 2006; Genthon et al., 2008; Roerdink et al., 2009). Health related Quality of life, assessed by SIS 3.0.It  will be considered for domains: strength: minimum score change (MDC): 24; average change (CID): 9.2; AVD: MDC: 17.3; CID: 5.9; Mobility: MDC: 15.1; CID: 4.5 and for hand function domain: MDC: 25.9; CID: 17.8 (Lin et al., 2010).   Depression, measured by the Beck Depression Inventory. A difference of 5 points, a minimal clinically important difference detected will be considered; 10-19, a moderate difference and from 20 points will be considered a major clinically detected difference (Hiroe et al., 2004).   Motivation, assessed by own questionnaire with the help of a visual scale and being considered a change of category as clinically relevant (no little, little, more or less, very or extremely motivated). Gait kinematics analysis performed by Qualysis ProReflex 240. Variables analyzed: cadence (number of steps per minute), stride length (the distance between successive points of heel contact of the paretic foot) and gait speed (travel speed) (DE SOUZA e RODACKI, 2012). Balance and fall risk measured by the Berg Balance Scale. Values below 45 points are characterized as impaired balance and an increased fall risk (BERG et al., 1992). Ability to modify gait in response to the demands of certain tasks using the scale Dynamic Gait Index (DGI). Values below 18 points indicate changes in the gait performance in the evaluated tasks (LANDERS et al., 2008).
Validation for the portuguese fatigue assessment questionnaire in patients with cancer: Cancer Fatigue Scale (CFS)
Brazilian version of the Cancer Fatigue Scale (CFS): study of the validity and reproducibility
A prospective cross-sectional observational study  for translation and validation of a fatigue assessment questionnaire in 100 women diagnosed with breast cancer, aged between 18-65 years.
Physical therapy patients 18-65 years of age; in outpatient treatment for primary breast cancer; individuals with communication skills and understanding preserved.
Pregnant women will be excluded; patients with psychiatric disorders and / or neurological; patients with decompensated heart disease; patients with chronic lung disease; individuals unable to answer the evaluation questionnaires (such as illiterate and speech/writing disorders).
It is expected to review the questionnaire Cancer Fatigue Scale, based on cross-cultural adaptation guide Beaton et al. (2000), and make it reproducible fatigue as assessment tool to aid in the diagnosis and treatment of fatigue reported in patients with breast cancer.
It is also expected to relate (correlation greater than 0.03) instrument with other clinical parameters related to the same construct evaluated, as follows: functional capability (performance status) through the Karnofsky scale; presence of pain through the Brief Pain Inventory and algometer; depression and sleep disorders through the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
Prevention of tuberculosis  in prisions.
Primary prophylaxis for prevention of TB in prison
728 subjects will be recruited respecting the inclusion / exclusion criteria. These will be divided into two groups of 324 individuals, called experimental and control, respectively. A simple individual randomization process will be used for the allocation of subjects in these groups.
Each participant in the experimental group will receive a weekly, supervised, weekly dose of rifapentine (900 mg) + isoniazid (150 mg) for 52 weeks. Participants in the control group will receive a weekly, supervised oral dose of placebo for the same period.
Minimum stay estimated at 12 months under a closed regime; age between 18 and 45 years; without active tuberculosis or previous use of rifapentine + isoniazid; without consuming alcohol at least 3 months.
Positive serology for HIV, hepatitis B and C; latent tuberculosis; liver enzymes three times the upper limit; use of any medication that influence the metabolism of P450 enzyme; acute or chronic renal failure; epilepsy; indigenous.
50% of tuberculosis infection after 12 months of imprisonment.
Reduction of 50% of active tuberculosis after 24 months of imprisonment
Comparison of tracheal tubes for tracheal intubation in children undergoing surgery for tonsils removal
Comparison of tracheal tube cuffs filled with Air or Alkalinized Lidocaine in patients undergoing Tonsillectomy
Control group: 40 pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tube cuffs filled with air plus intravenous administration of 0.1 ml/kg of normal saline. Experimental groups: (1) 40 pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tube cuffs filled with air plus intravenous administration of 0.2 mg/kg of dexamethasone. (2) 40 pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tube cuffs filled with 1% alkalinized lidocaine plus intravenous administration of 0.1 ml/kg of normal saline. (3) 40 pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tube cuffs filled with 1% alkalinized lidocaine plus intravenous administration of 0.2 mg/kg of dexamethasone. The patients will be random allocated to the groups.
Children undergoing tonsillectomy or adenoidectomy under general anesthesia; aged between 4 and 12 years; both genders; physical status ASA I or II according to American Society of Anesthesiologists
Oropharyngeal and neck malformations and distortions; patients who had already been intubated or tracheostomized for the surgery; the previous presence of stridor or dysphonia; prolonged tracheal intubation required after surgery; laryngeal or oropharyngeal illness or surgery; requirement for the introduction of a nasogastric or orogastric tube; more than two attempts of tracheal intubation; infection at the surgical site verified during pre-anesthetic evaluation; need of intensive care unit after surgery (severe sleep apnea)
Reduction of the occurrence of sore throat in postoperative period evaluated by face pain scale for children, ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (maximum pain) and recorded as percentage of occurrence, according to a minimum difference of 12% in relation to control group
Heart rate variation between before and after tracheal extubation, evaluated as percentage of variation, according to a minimum variation of 20% in relation to control group. Mean arterial pressure variation between before and after tracheal extubation, evaluated as percentage of variation, according to a minimum variation of 20% in relation to control group
Evaluation of an educational program for the home care of patients undergoing prostate surgery
Analysis of a teaching program for the preparation for discharge of patients undergoing radical prostatectomy
INTERVENTION GROUP:

The IG was composed of a total of 34 participants. The procedures performed in this group consisted of an individualized support in the rehabilitation period of the radical prostatectomy that counted on oral orientation, writing and telephonic reinforcement. Thus, the procedures occurred in three sequential moments, these being:
Age over 18 years; have cognitive ability for participation assessed from the application of mini mental state examination; refer locomotor ability, visual, hearing and realization of self-care; have a telephone (fixed or mobile) to continue the education program.
Patients report difficulties to receive phone calls were excluded.
Outcome found: among the 68 patients that composed the sample, 34 of whom were CG And 34 of the IM, no significant differences were identified between the two Post-test, at the level of the general and perceived self-efficacy variable.
Outcome found: among the 68 patients that comprised the sample, 34 individuals from CG and 34 from IG, significant differences between the two groups were identified in the post-test, at the level of the variables psychological morbidity (anxiety and depression), satisfaction and knowledge
Study of Intranasal Rapid Action Esketamine for treatment of Major Depressive Disorder Treatment Resistant 
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multicenter, Active-controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and Tolerability of Fixed
Doses of Intranasal Esketamine Plus an Oral Antidepressant in Adult Subjects with Treatment-resistant Depression - ESKETINTRD3001
Intranasal escetamine 56 mg plus oral antidepressant; 112 participants; twice weekly for 4 weeks as a fixed dose schedule; Intranasal escetamine 84 mg plus oral antidepressant ; 112 participants; twice weekly for 4 weeks as a fixed dose schedule; Placebo escetamina intranasal plus oral antidepressant; 112 participants; twice weekly for 4 weeks as a fixed dose schedule
man or woman 18 years old (or older if the minimum legal age of consent in the country in which the study is taking place is greater than [
Participants who have previously demonstrated nonresponse of depressive symptoms to esketamine or ketamine in the current major depressive episode. to all 4 of the oral antidepressant treatment options available for the double-blind induction phase (i.e. duloxetine. escitalopram. sertraline. and venlafaxine extended release [XR]) in the current major depressive episode (based on MGH-ATRQ) or an adequate course of treatment with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in the current major depressive episode defined as at least 7 treatments with unilateral ECT; Participant currently has an implant for vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) or has received deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the current episode of depression; Participant has a current or prior DSM-5 diagnosis of a psychotic disorder or MDD with psychosis. bipolar or related disorders (confirmed by the MINI). comorbid obsessive compulsive disorder. intellectual disability (only DSM-5 diagnostic code 319). borderline personality disorder. antisocial personality disorder. histrionic personality disorder. or narcissistic personality disorder; Participant has homicidal ideation/intent per the investigator’s clinical judgment or has suicidal ideation with some intent to act within 6 months prior to the start of the screening prospective observational phase per the investigator’s clinical judgment or based on the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS); Participants with history of moderate or severe substance or alcohol use disorder according to DSM-5 criteria
Change From Baseline in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) Total Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase
Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Depressive Symptoms Using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) Total Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase; Onset of Clinical Response That Continued from Day 2 Through the End of the 4-week Doubleblind Induction Phase;  Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Functioning and Associated Disability as Assessed by the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) Total Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase; Change From Baseline in Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) Score at End of Double-blind Induction Phase;  Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7) Total Score at End of Doubleblind Induction Phase; Change From Baseline in  Subject-reported Healthrelated Quality of Life and Health Status as Assessed by EuroQol-5 Dimension-5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) at End of Double-blind Induction Phase
Changes in Heart Rate and Benefits of an  Exercise Training Carried Out During Hemodialysis in Intensive Care Unit Patients (ICU)
Hemodynamic Effects of Physical Activity in Critically Ill Patients During Hemodialysis
We will have two groups in this study. A control group (with 18 patients) and an intervention group (with 18 patients). Will be included in the study males and females aged at least 18 and maximum of 85 years. Randomization to the groups will be done by draw. In the control group the patient will undergo hemodialysis therapy typically performed in intensive care units. In the intervention group, the patient will perform an exercise with legs (pedaling a bicycle) during hemodialysis. They will perform this activity 4 x 15 minutes with a 10 minutes for rest between series. It will be an unblind study since the same physiotherapist will randomize and treat the patients.
Hemodynamical stability, hemoglobin 
Catheter positioned in arterial femoral site.
At the end of dialysis, a blood sample will be collected for serum creatinine. It is expected that the intervention group (exercise + dialysis) presents a serum creatinine less than the control group (dialysis) due to increased cardiac output caused by exercise which would increase the rate of extraction of this substance.
At the end of dialysis, a blood sample will be collected for the determination of serum urea and potassium. It is expected that the intervention group (exercise + dialysis) presents a serum urea and potassium lower than the control group (dialysis) due to increased cardiac output caused by exercise which would increase the rate of extraction of this substance. Moreover, considering that dialysis may cause hemodynamic instability, the addition of dialysis exercise can increase the number of episodes of instability. Thus, the number of instabilities occurring during dialysis will also be compared between groups. As the proposed exercise intensity is low, it is expected that the number of instabilities occurring in both groups is the same.
The effect of muscle strengthening in children with cerebral palsy
The effect of strengthening exercises on the functional aspects and patterns of muscle recruitment in children with cerebral palsy
It will be done an active search with names of patients from 06 to 15 years old with cerebral palsy and motor levels I, II and III according to Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS). Then, it will be done a separation of individuals within motor levels and randomized 15 participants in each level, and the total number will be 45 participants. All the individuals, regardless of the motor level will also  be assessed througth the International Classification of Functioning check list and the Pediatric Questionnaire Quality of Life (PedsQL) according to their age, the items D and E of the Gross Motor Funtion Measure (GMFM), electromyographic activity of the major muscles of the lower limb and trunk during sitting and rising from a chair (erector spinae muscles, rectus abdominis, gluteus medius, adductor longus, vastus lateral, femoral biceps, hamstrings, tibialis anterior and lateral gastrocnemius), modified scale Ashwort, manual muscle testing force and the 1-minute walk test. After the evaluations, all participants will participate in the same program of muscle strengthening where the sessions will be of 50 minutes each, three times a week, every other day for twelve weeks. In this protocol five exercises will be performed: 1 - Lift and sit in a chair; 2 - Moving in step sideways; 3 - Up and down four stair steps alternating feet, 4 - Walk ten steps backwards; 5 - Ten marching steps aside. To begin the muscle building program, the initial charge will be 10% of the body weight and it will be increased 10% of the initial load every two weeks . After the end of the protocol, that is, after 12 weeks of intervention, the individuals will be reassessed with the same previous tests intervention, and it will be made a comparison between the beginning and the end of the protocol. This study has no control group.
Children with cerebral palsy, that are in treatment of rehabilitation at Association Assistance for Disable Child (AACD)in the city of Uberlândia-MG, who have between six to fifteen years old, whose parents or guardians have signed consent forms; that present motor level I, II, III do Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) and that present to perform cognitive tasks Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM)and that did not undergo into medical procedures (botulinum toxin and surgery) for six months and have no deformities or pain
Children with clinical instability, such as seizures or who require frequent hospitalizations or those who have pain and deformity or those who have three absences in a month
Improvement of the patients functional capacity submmitted from the treatment.To evaluate it will be used  the International Classification of Functioning check list (to stand up, to be up, walk short distances, walk long distances, go up/down, run, walk inside and outside the house and walk using equipment), the items D and E of the Gross Motor Funtion Measure (GMFM), modified scale Ashwort, manual muscle testing force and the 1-minute walk test. And to have the awaited result, it will be considered a variation of at least 5% in each test, a questionnaire and scale used in pre and pos intervention
Improviment of the muscle activation pattern, the quality of recruitment muscles and the quality of life. To evaluate this variables it will be utilized the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) according to age and activity electromyographic of the main muscles of the lower members and trunk during sitting and standing from a chair (spinal erector muscle, rectus abdominis muscle, muscle gluteus medius, adductor longus muscle, vastus lateralis muscle, biceps femoris muscle, hamstring, lateral gastrocnemius muscle, tibial anterior muscle) And to have the awaited result, it will be considered a variation of at least 5% in each evaluation used pre and pos intervenction
Program at school: Healthy Living, Happy Heart
Promotion program for cardiovascular health: resources and interventions in the school network
After randomization schools will be divided into control group (CG) and Intervention Group (IG).
Teachers and educators of GI schools will receive an intervention in training course format. Participate in the intervention on average 25 teachers. The course will be offered in eight biweekly meetings, totaling 32 hours of intervention. At each meeting a theme will be addressed and work of theoretical and practical way. Themes meetings: 1) Risk factors for cardiovascular disease, obesity and physical inactivity; 2) Recognizing the healthy foods; 3) Food Pyramid; 4) How do I feed?
Children 6 to 11 years old, both genders, students from 1st to 5th grade of elementary school of public schools in the city of Frederick / RS; Children with permission of parents or guardians; Teachers and educators from public schools in the municipality of Frederick / RS representing school years 1st to 5th grade of elementary school.
Children older than 9 years who are illiterate; with cognitive or neurological deficits that prevent the completion of the questionnaires; Teachers who teach in more than one research participant school; and teachers who do not sign the Instrument of Consent.
Increased knowledge of the Children After Intervention in the classroom, checked through to CARDIOKIDS, que scale evaluates quantitatively Knowledge About Healthy Habits and Risk Factors paragraph cardiovascular disease, from finding a variation of 16% of the pre and post intervention measurements.
Behavior change food children checked by Recall 24 hours, measuring food consumption from the difference of healthier food choices after intervention. Increased physical activity level of children as measured by the COMPAC 2 for children 10 to 11 years and DAFA- Typical Day of Physical Activity for children 6 to 9 years, from the verification of greater physical activity and exercise physical day-to-day.
Influence of the practice of Pilates in the strength of the pelvic floor muscles on the loss of urine and back pain in the last trimester of pregnancy
Clinical trial: influence of the practice of Pilates on the incidence of urinary incontinence, perineal strength low back pain in the third trimester
Study group: 40 women that will perform 20 Pilates sessions, lasting 60 minutes each, twice a week. Comparison group: 40 women that will perform guided walks two to three times a week for 30 minutes daily and strengthening exercises of the pelvic floor.
First pregnancy. Greater than 18. There have reports of urinary incontinence pre pregnancy and low back pain. Gestational age of 20 to 25 weeks. Pregnancy single fetus.
Women with neurological antecedents that caused cognitive deficit or lower limb motor. Women with physical and / or mental limitations for running exercises. Restrictive lung diseases. Heart Disease. Having performed regular physical exercise or Pilates in the past six months. Pre pregnancy Body Mass Index (BMI) 
Prevention of urinary incontinence analyzed through the Incontinence Urinary questionnaire from the variance observed at least 5% of the pre and post treatment results. Prevention of back pain analyzed through the visual analogue scale from the variance observed at least 5% of the pre and post treatment results.
Strengthening the pelvic floor through surface electromyography from observations of 5% significance in the pre and post treatment results.
The efficacy of speech therapy in post-intubated patients with swallowing disorder
The efficacy of speech therapy in post-intubated patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia
Treated group: 17 patients. Intervention: phonoaudiological intervention through evaluation, guidelines (patient positioning, oral hygiene, volume, flavor and food temperature; utensils used for food), therapeutic techniques (maneuvers airway protection and glottal cleaning as 
Volunteers of both genders, aged between 18 and 100 years who received orotracheal intubation in more than 48 hours and extubation between two and seven days
Clinically very serious volunteers, who are making use of tracheostomy, which are not making use of a nasogastric tube; diagnosis of neurological diseases
Decreased time to progression of nasogastric tube feeding to oral feeding in the group that underwent speech therapy: assessment, guidelines (patient positioning, oral hygiene, volume, flavor and food temperature; utensils used for food), therapeutic techniques (maneuvers of airway protection and glottal cleaning) oromiofuncionais and vocal exercises (3 sets of 10 repetitions for the chosen exercise) and introducing diet. It is expected that the results of the Treated Group and Control Group are different depending on of the realization of speech therapy.
We verified the effectiveness of speech therapy through FOIS scale (scale of functional oral intake), to demonstrate the safe progression of diet dependent alternative pathway (nasoenteric tube) to the oral route. We saw that the Treaty Group reached levels regarding the oral routh (between 4 and 7) and this increase was in fewer days compared to the control group.
Laser and LED on the healing of cardiac surgery incision
Photobiomodulation with the use of low-level laser and LED in the sternotomy and saphenous repair process of postoperative patients in coronary artery bypass grafting
Participants were divided into four groups with equal number of participants, being 30 per group, and 120 in total, allocated as follows: Group 01 were subjected to phototherapy with  light emitted diode of 640nm wavelength and intensity of 6 J/cm2 at the immediate postoperative period, second, fourth and sixth day after surgery and 48 hours after hospital discharge; Group 02  received laser phototherapy application of 660nm wavelength and intensity of 6 J/cm2 in the immediate postoperative period, second, fourth and sixth day after surgery and 48 hours after hospital discharge; Group 3 received placebo, with phototherapy equipment switched off, attending the same protocol of group 01; and group 4 were accompanied only clinically.
Were included individuals who perform elective coronary artery bypass grafting with saphenous vein graft, undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass, hemodynamically stable and who agree to participate in the study by signing the  Consent Term.
Diabetic, morbidly obese with a body mass index (BMI) greater than 40 kg/m2, history of previous thoracic surgery, urgent and emergency surgery, respiratory failure, renal failure, low cardiac output syndrome, need for circulatory assistance using of intra-aortic balloon, subjects who developed complications that resulted in changes to the protocol of analgesia, those showing the period of preoperative hospitalization over 48 hours, presence of coagulopathy, malignancy, renal failure, respiratory tract infections, urinary and endocarditis, as well as those who refused to participate.
The quality of life were assessed at the preoperatory period and one month after hospital discharge using the SF36 Questionnaire adapted and translated into Portuguese.
In the case of dehiscence, culture with the local material collected were performed by a swab in order to identify the presence of infectious agents.
Effects of balance training associated with cardiorespiratory training in the water about the falls risk and funcionality in women
Therapeutic approach in the quality of life and elderly functionality
Three months of intervention , in two groups of 12 participants , with balance training in solo and cardiorespiratory training in the water, over a period of 60 minutes and frequency of twice a week.
Women over 45 years old, participants of UNATI (Universidade Aberta à Terceira Idade) PUC - GO (Pontificia Universidade Católica - Goiás), capable according with the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) with score minimum of 17, considering illiterate , 75% presence in cardiorespiratory training in the water and in balance training in solo for a period of three months , who participated in all assessments proposed in the study and signed the Informed Consent and Informed.
Women who did not pass in the screening UNATI (Universidade Aberta a Terceira Idade) PUC - GO (Pontifícia Universidade Católica - Goiás) prior to attending the program, did not participate in Six Minutes Walk Test (6MWT) due the following contraindications: recent electrocardiographic changes; recent myocardial infarction acute ; high resting blood pressure (systolic bigger then 180 mmHg; diastolic bigger then 100 mmHg); unstable angina during the last month; heart rate greater than 120 beats per minute.
Outcome found: Improves of functionality  without statistical significance, measured by Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), where the participants showed an increase in the average balance test, 3,92 ± 0,28 for 3,96 ± 0,20, and also in the test sitting and standing, from 2,75 ± 1,19 for 2,79 ± 0,93, p equal 0,575 and p equal 0,885, respectively. Significant decrease in the risk of falls, measured by Quick Screen Clinical Falls Risk Assessment, with significant differences in pre and post-training with p less than 0,001 in the pre-training only 29,2% of the sample had a 7% risk of falls, classification minimum according to the test, the remaining 66,7% and 4,2% were 13% and 27% probability of falling, respectively. And in the post-training the percentage of participants who had a 7% risk of falls increased to 79,2%, only 20,8% had 13% and no qualified 27% risk of falls. Significant improvement in functional capacity, measured by the Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT), which in the pre-training the participants walked an average of 430,46 ± 103.39 meters in the 6MWT and 95,5% were shown to be sufficient according to the predicted. After three months of training toured 470,04 ± 83,25 meters and 100% managed to achieve sufficiency in accordance with the predicted therefore increased 39,58 ± 95,54 meters in the post-training, representing a significant improvement (p equal 0,049).
Outcomes found: correlation was found between increased age and increased risk of falls, rated by Quick Screen Clinical Falls Risk Assessment and Spearman Correlation Index, with significance and moderate statistical correlation (p equal 0,012 and r equal 0,538). Correlation between functionality and quality in the performance of activities of daily living, measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery, Six Minute Walk Test and Spearman Correlation Index, with moderate significance and correlation statistically (p equal 0,008 and r equal 0,560). Correlation between higher number of comorbidities with increased risk of falls, assessed by questionnaire of comorbidities, Quick Screen Clinical Risk Assessment and Spearman Correlation Index, with moderate statistical significance and correlation (p equal 0,006 and r equal 0,696).
Impact of specific physcail therapy treatment on the health of patients with Parkinson
Effects of cognitive-motor rehabilitation on non-motor symptoms of patients with Parkinson
Group 1 (n = 10): 10 patients with Parkinson’s disease will participate in a program of cognitive-motor exercises, with activities performed in group. Group 2 (n = 10): 10 patients with Parkinson’s disease will participate in a program of cognitive-motor exercises, with activities performed individually. Group 3 (n=10): 10 patients with Parkinson
Volunteers of both gender, aged between 60 and 90 years, diagnosed with idiopathic Parkins
Patients with cognitive decline, those with movement disorders not compatible with a diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson
Improvement in health indeces (cognitive functions, functionality and quality of life), verified by means of the longitudinal analysis promoted by the Repeated Measures Analysis of Variances, with p<0.05 and statistical power of 80%.
Maintenance/improvement of cognitive functions, functionality and quality of life. The verification shall be accomplished by the following instruments: Wisconsin Card Sorting Testt, Mini-Mental State Examination, Raven test, Parkinson's Desease Questionnare (PDQ-39) and Pfeffer Index.
An Efficacy and Safety Study of Ustekinumab in Participants With Active Nonradiographic Axial
Spondyloarthritis
CNTO1275AKS3003 - A Phase 3, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Study Evaluating the Efficacy and Safety of Ustekinumab in the Treatment of Subjects With Active Nonradiographic Axial Spondyloarthritis
Approximately 390 participants will be randomized in approximately 85 sites. The sample size of the study can be increased to approximately 480 participants if the number of participants with inadequate response to one anti-TNF agent is higher than expected among the first 200 participants randomized. Will be randomly assigned to participants 45mg or 90mg of administration of subcutaneous ustekinumab (SC) or placebo at weeks 0, 4 and 16. At week 16, the participants in the placebo group who qualify for early escape (participants with improvement of 
Research participants should be between 18 and 50 years of age.Rresearch participants should be classified as having NR AxSpA, based on the ASAS criteria 2009.Must present diagnostic nr-AxSpA, according to the criteria of 2009 ASAS, for 5 years.Must be 45 years old at onset of nr-AxSpA .In selection or within 3 months of selection, research participants are to present active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with spondyloarthritis and should not present radiographic sacroiliitis that meets the 1984 (New York criteria modified as confirmed by an X-ray rated by central readers ) .Must present symptoms of active disease at screening and at baseline, as evidenced by both BASDAI score 4 as by a score of VAS 4 of total back pain, each on a scale of 0 to 10.Must present an inadequate response to at least two NSAIDs over a period of 4 weeks, in total, with the maximum doses recommended NSAID (s) or be unable to receive a full period of 4 weeks of treatment with most NSAIDs because of intolerance, toxicity or contraindications for NSAIDs.Research participants previously treated with an anti-TNF biologic agent must be: primary or secondary responders to at most one anti-TNF agent or intolerance present documented maximum one anti-TNF treatment or have discontinued at most 1 anti-TNF agent due to lack of efficacy / safety .IF are using other NSAIDs or analgesics for nr-AxSpA, research participants should be receiving a stable dose for at least 2 weeks prior to first administration of study drug. If are not currently using NSAIDs or other analgesics for nr-AxSpA, research participants must not have received NSAIDs or other analgesics for nr-AxSpA for at least 2 weeks prior to first administration of the drug estudo.If are using corticosteroids oral, research participants should be receiving a stable dose equivalent to 10 mg of prednisone / day for at least 2 weeks prior to first administration of the study drug .If currently are not using corticosteroids, the research participants must not have received oral corticosteroids for at least 2 weeks prior to first administration of the study drug .If are using methotrexate, sulfasalazine or hydroxychloroquine, research participants should have started treatment at least 3 months prior to the first dose of study drug and should not present no serious toxic side effects attributable to these DMARDs.
Present radiographic sacroiliitis that meets the 1984 New York modified criteria. Present other inflammatory diseases that may confound the ratings of the benefit of treatment with ustekinumab, including, among others: rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus or Lyme. Women that is pregnant, breastfeeding or planning a pregnancy or man that bear a child in a woman during inclusion in the study or within 5 months after receiving the last dose of the study drug .Have received any systemic immunosuppressant or DMARD other than MTX, SSZ or HCQ within 4 weeks before the first administration of the study drug .Have received leflunomide within 3 months before first dose of study medication or receiving leflunomide within 12 months prior to first administration of study drug and not having undergone a drug elimination procedure.Have received corticosteroids epidural, intra-articular, IM or IV, including adrenocorticotropic hormone during 4 weeks prior to the first administration of the study drug .Have ustekinumab or any other agent whose target is IL-23.Have prior received more than one anti-TNF agent .Have received infliximab or biosimilar infliximab within 12 weeks before the first administration of the study drug.Have received adalimumab, golimumab, certolizumab pegol. etanercept within 6 weeks prior to the first administration of the study drug .Have received prior biological treatment other than anti-TNF before the first dose of the study drug .Have ever received tofacitinibe or any other inhibitor of Janus quinases.Present any known hypersensitivity to human protein immunoglobulin .Have used citotoxics drugs .Present a history of active granulomatous disease before selection.Have received vaccination with Bacillus Calmette-Guérin within the 12 months prior to selection .Present a chest radiograph within the previous 3 months the first dose of study drug to show a suggestive abnormality of malignancy or current active infection, including  TB. Have presented a mycobacterial nontuberculous infection or oportunist infection.Have received, or is expected to receive any vaccination with alive virus or alive bacteria in the 3 months prior to the first administration of study medication during the study or within 3 months after the last administration of the study drug .Present one history of joint prosthesis infected or have received antibiotics for a suspected prosthetic joint infection. have presented a serious infection or have been hospitalized because of an infection or have been treated with IV antibiotics for an infection within the two months prior to the first administration of study drug. Presenting a history of infectious disease or current infectious disease, chronic or recurrent. Research participant present a history of positivity for antibodies to HIV or tested positive for HIV in selection. Present infection for Hepatitis B.Research Participantes who are positive for antibodies to hepatitis C.Present signs or current symptoms of kidney disease, hepatic, hematologic, gastrointestinal, endocrine, pulmonary, cardiac, neurological, brain or severe psychiatric, progressive or not controled. Present a known history of lymphoproliferative disease. The research participant presents a history of malignancy within 5 years prior to selection.
Percentage of Participants Achieving Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) 20 Score at Week 24 - The ASAS measures symptomatic improvement in Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) participants in 4 domains: participant global assessment of disease activity, pain, function, inflammation. ASAS 20 = 20 percent (%) improvement from baseline and an absolute change >= 10 units on a 0-10 scale (0=no disease activity; 10=high disease activity) for >= 3 domains, and no worsening in remaining domain.
Percentage of Participant Who Achieve ASDAS (CRP) Inactive Disease (<1.3) at Week 24 - The ASDAS-CRP was derived from back pain, duration of morning stiffness, patient global score and peripheral pain/swelling. The scores were categorized as follows : inactive disease(< 1.3), moderate (1.3 - < 2.1), high (2.1 - 3.5) and very high disease activity ( > 3.5).
Comparison of tracheal tubes for children
Comparison of the use of uncuffed tracheal tube versus cuffed tracheal tubes filled with saline solution, lidocaine or air in pediatric patients
Experimental groups: (1) 41 patients undergoing surgery under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tubes filled with 0.5% alkalinized lidocaine solution. (2) 41 patients undergoing surgery under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tubes filled with 1% alkalinized lidocaine solution. (3) 41 patients undergoing surgery under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tubes filled with normal saline. Control group: 41 patients undergoing surgery under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and tracheal tubes filled with air. Cuff filling with air, both alkalinized lidocaine solutions, and normal saline will follow randomization and patients will be random allocated to the groups.
Children undergoing general anesthesia; aged between 3 and 13 years; both genders; physical status 1 or 2 according to American Society of Anesthesiologists; minor or medium level surgery
Oropharyngeal and neck malformations and distortions; patients who had already been intubated or tracheostomised; previous presence of stridor or dysphonia; laryngeal or oropharyngeal illness or surgery; requirement for the introduction of a nasogastric or orogastric tube; more than two attempts at tracheal intubation; use of corticosteroids during the perioperative period; the use of local anaesthetic agents administered through a route other than that used to fill the tracheal tube cuffs
Outcome evaluated: Sore throat at the post anesthesia care unit (values are % of occurrence): Group Air (control): 12.2%; Group Normal saline: 12.2%; Group 0.5% Alkalinized lidocaine: 2.4%; Group 1% Alkalinized lidocaine: 2.4% (qui-square test, p = 0.12). Sore throat 8 hours after tracheal extubation (values are % of occurrence): Group Air (control): 22.0%; Group Normal saline: 9.8%; Group 0.5% Alkalinized lidocaine: 4.8%; Group 1% Alkalinized lidocaine: 2.4% (qui-square test, p = 0.015). Then, pairwise comparison performed: Group Air vs. Group 0.5% Alkalinized lidocaine, p < 0.05; Group Air vs. Group 1% Alkalinized lidocaine, p < 0.05. All other comparisons, p > 0.05.
Outcome evaluated: Plasma lidocaine concentration. Values are mean and standard deviation, between parentheses, and are expressed as ng/dl: Group 0.5% Alkalinized lidocaine: 48.4 (53.7) Group 1% Alkalinized lidocaine: 77.4 (217.61) p = 0.56
Comparison of the effectiveness of therapy  bromopride,metoclopramide,e ondasetron  Intramuscular for treatment of vomiting 
Randomized  clinical trial, comparing the effectiveness of therapy bromopride, metoclopramide and ondansetron intramuscular for treatment of vomiting 
All children who arrive at the emergency department with vomiting Pediatric ready for suspected gastroenteritis (intestinal infection), will be randomly selected to receive medication to stop the vomiting. 1:60 group children, intramuscular injection bromopride (0.15 mg / kg / dose; Group 2:60 children, intramuscular injection of metoclopramide (0.15 mg / kg / dose; Group 3:60 children, intramuscular injection of ondansetron (0.15 mg / kg / dose. every child will be under observation for an hour. Thirty minutes after receiving medication, will be offered 200 ml of water, to test whether sessou vomiting. An hour after the child has been medicated, Sea assessed by the nurse and the doctor on call to assess treatment outcome. home the child will be evaluated by family and in twenty-four hour nurses league and note the progress of the child.
children who have experienced two or more episodes of vomiting in the last 24 hours, aged 1 year to 12 years, both genders; medical indication for receiving intramuscular antiemetic; when the country or guardians agree with the inclusion of a dependent in the study 
bromopride known allergy to metoclopramide and ondansetron; vomiting due to sedation, anesthesia or chemotherapy; teenagers pregnant and / or breastfeeding; heart disease, advanced renal disease, urinary tract infection, epilepsy, intestinal obstruction, appendicitis, meningitis and diabetes mellitus, malnutrition, pneumonia, brain tumor
Assess the number of late adverse events after use of antiemetics, observed by family members in the household in 24 hours and recorded by the researchers.   To evaluate the oral acceptance of fluids after use of antiemetics and the comparison between the three drugs. Recorded and observed by researchers.
 Ondansetron was effective in the first hour  and also in the next 6 h. No known side effects, had better success of oral rehydration, intravenous hydration and avoided hospitalization. The bromopride and metoclopramide were considered effective, but cause drowsiness which can increase the time of observation and hospital costs.
Bilateral arms function after bilateral training in individuals with severe hemiparesis: a randomised clinical trial
Bilateral upper limbs function after bilateral training in individuals with severe hemiparesis: a randomised clinical trial
Experimental group - Individuals will be trained using a protocol of bilateral functional tasks, including symmetrical and asymmetrical bilateral activities, where most of the tasks are asymmetrical and paretic upper limb provides support for implementing the activity. A systematic progression for each task will be made. The interventions included two weeks, 10 sessions of 60 minutes each.
Control group - The control group will receive the same intensity in the experimental group, 10 sessions of 60 minutes each for two weeks of conventional physiotherapy. The effect will be assessed by evaluating the function of bilateral upper limbs
 Chronic Hemiparesis (at least six months after stroke);  Age over 21 years;
  Severe impairment in upper limb (Fugl-Meyer in the less 30/66);  Understanding simple order 
Patients with other associated neurological diagnosis;  Subjects with orthopedic injuries in the upper bounds.

Function Test Bilateral upper limbs (TEBIM):  TEBIM is a special instrument to sequela due to Cerebrovascular accident (CVA). It is to assess the interaction between MS and MS paretic and non paretic used simultaneously while performing functional activities. In carrying out the tasks proposed actions are similar day-to-day, using standard materials (Michaelsen et al., 2007).  The price of the tasks are graduate from 0 to 5. Featuring 0 to not try or can not perform the task bilaterally as an affected upper limb participated in 25% or less of the task, 2 for the affected upper limb participated in 50% of the task or less, 3 for the affected upper limb participating 75% or less of the task, four runs as the tasks fully with both arms simultaneously but with compensation for the performance and five bilateral normal.  The timing of the tasks is to assist in the functional evaluation. It stipulated a maximum time of 120 seconds to perform each task. The functional evaluation refers to the use of simultaneous bilateral upper limbs (Michaelsen et al., 2007). 
Motor Activity Log (MAL):   The MAL is a structured interview that aims to examine how much and how individuals use their upper limb outside of therapeutic environment. Participants are asked by means of standard questions about the amount of use of their paretic arm (Quantity Range of Motion, or EQT) and the quality of their movements (Quality of Movement Scale or EQL) during functional activities indicated. The scales are printed on separate forms that are placed in front of the patient during the test administration. As far as the EQT EQL are scored from 0 to 5 points. The examiner should tell subjects that they can indicate 0.5 (eg 0.5, 1.5, 2.5 ...) in the scores to better reflect this reality (USWATTE et al., 2006) 
Evaluating an intervention program to help parents raise their children 

Evaluating the efficacy of a preventive intervention in parenting practices 
Both groups (intervention and waiting list control) will participate in the  ACT Raising Safe Kids Program, developed by the American Psychological Association. The ACT program is an universal intervention to improve positive parenting practices and to prevent violence and child maltreatment.  These program consists of eight two hours sessions  once a week. The sessions will be disseminated knowledge and skills to parents on child development and education of children, and how to prevent child maltreatment. The curriculum is organized in eight modules as following:1)
understanding Children’s Behaviors; 2)young children’s exposure to violence; 3) understanding and controlling parents’ anger; 4) understanding and helping angry children; 5)children and electronic Media; 6) discipline and parenting styles; 7) discipline for positive behaviors; 8) take ACT to your home and community. The intervention group will participate on three assessments (before and after the program and three months after the program ends), lasting a maximum of one hour and a half each, in which  participants answer to instruments. These instruments are about participant history of life, child behavior, and how they educate their children. The waiting list group will also participate in these assessments, but only participate in the intervention after the intervention group finished. The mothers of these group will follow the schedule: 1st evaluation; 
Mothers of children at 3 to 8 years of age, belonging to families living in Ribeirão Preto (SP), Brazil. The inclusion criteria are the following: biological mothers, adoptive mothers or caregivers with custody of the child carrying the maternal function (e.g., grandparents with custody of the child); residents in Ribeirão Preto. 


mothers of children with mental illness or disabling physical illness; mothers with apparent cognitive impairment, leading to the loss in understanding instructions; and mothers who are participating in some other kind of guidance on parenting practices.
increase parenting practices scores of  mothers participants in the intervention program. To evaluate the parenting practices  will be used the ACT Evaluation Questionnaire including the parental style, electronic media and parental behavior scales (Silva, 2009). For realization of the expected outcomes will be considered statistically significant increase in ACT questionnaire scores from  pre- to post-intervention, in the intervention group compared with the waiting list control group, indicating an improvement of parenting practices in the intervention group .
increase in child behavior scores of sons of  mothers participants in the intervention program. To evaluate the child behavior will be used the the SDQ questionnaire (Goodman , 2005).For realization of the expected outcomes will be considered statistically significant decrease in SDQ scores, from pre- to post intervention, in the intervention group compared with the waiting list control group, indicating decrease in child behavior problems in the intervention group. 
Effects of the combination of visual or auditory cues to treadmill gait training of individuals who have suffered stroke
Influence of biofeedback in gait training on a treadmill with partial body weight support in hemiparetic subjects
Experimental Group I: 10 subjects underwent gait training on treadmill with weight support (30%). During training, the patients received visual stimuli (visual biofeedback) data by the monitor itself in the wake of this training. This provided individuals information in real time on the width and symmetry of the step by the appearance of the screen feet symbolic stimulus as give the individual step. The foot should stay within a rectangle 20cm displayed on the screen in order to follow the visual cues and make corrections if the movement was perceived outside the standards required. Experimental Group II: 10 patients underwent gait training on treadmill with weight support (30%). During training, the patients received auditory stimuli (auditory biofeedback), performed by a digital metronome with a frequency of 115% of the average pace of the individual. Control group: 10 subjects underwent gait training on treadmill with weight support (30%), without any track, whether visual or auditory. All subjects had only one training session and were assessed before and after training the same.
Chronic stage of stroke (time of injury over 6 months); 
Hemiparesis; unilateral brain lesion and non-recurring, mild to moderate spasticity, with level 1 or 2 of the modified Ashworth scale;
Instability in the cardiovascular condition during training;
Lack of understanding of instructions for carrying out training
Improvement of temporal spatial and angular patterns of gait in humans after intervention assessed by kinematic analysis that seeks to acquire images from the execution of the movement, observing the behavior of dependent variables such as velocity, displacement, position and orientation body and its parts.
Improvement of motor function of subjects with hemiparesis after the gait training, evaluation by means of protocol Stroke Rehabilitation Assessment of Movement (STREAM. It is expected that individuals have higher scores after the training.
Intubation confirmation in newborns with volumetric device compared to the clinical method

Neonatal intubation confirmation with the use of pedflow volumetric device and the clinical method
Will be evaluated the use of a volumetric device compared to the clinical method of confirmation endotracheal intubation in newborns
The device remains connected to the tube until it is detected inflate or deflate the balloon or a maximum of 10 seconds. Then clinical confirmation is always performed
 newborns that in selected hospitals requiring intubation in presence one of the researchers
newborns weighing less than 500 grams , with genetic syndromes , poor facial formations or in use of neuromuscular paralytic drugs
Success rate for confirmation of endotracheal intubation by pedflow volumetric device and the clinical method By pedflow balloon mobilization is evaluated after sealing of the two side orifices in a maximum time of 10 seconds The clinical method confirmation will be made soon after the placement of self inflatable balloon on tracheal tube and evaluation movement of the chest wall, auscultation of axillary sounds and epigastric, pipe condensation in the exhalation, good ribcage expansion, increased oxygen saturation and heart rate
time will be evaluated to confirm the volumetric intubation device and also the clinical method, comparing the time required for each method 
Changes in vitamin D metabolism in HIV-infected patients.
Vitamin D, Immune Activation and Metabolic Changes in HIV-Infected Patients using Antiretroviral Therapy
Experimental group: 140 individuals with vitamin D deficiency will receive vitamin D supplementation orally 50,000 IU of vitamin D3 twice a week for five weeks followed by maintenance 2,000 IU daily supplementation until completing 12 weeks. At the end of 12 weeks, levels of 25 (OH) D3 will be verified. If the participant still have disabilities, he / she may make a second period of supplementation to complete a total of 24 weeks. After 24 weeks, daily supplementation  maintenance may be required. Supplementation / maintenance stops when the serum levels of 25 (OH) D reach values higher than 30 ng / ml.
There is no control group. This is a clinical study of only one arm.
HIV-infected men and women aged 18 years or more; having HIV-1 RNA 
Persons receiving vitamin D supplementation 
Range serum levels of Vitamin D greater than 30 ng / ml at week 24 of the study to the participants submitted to serum supplementation checked by chemiluminescence analysis. Outcome obtained: 83%  (n=52/63, 95% CI 71%-90%)  of participants reached serum levels of Vitamin D greater than 30 ng / ml at week 24 of the study.
Modification of fasting blood glucose levels, insulin, insulin resistance, fasting lipids (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), adiponectin, leptin, fructosamine and HbA1c in HIV-infected participants with viral suppression and vitamin levels D below 30 ng / ml checked by serum biochemical analysis  before the supplementation and after supplementation with vitamin D. Outcome obtained: Was observed that compared to baseline, week 24 CD4+ T lymphocyte counts increased. (baseline visit = 689 cells/mm³ week 24 visit = 712 cells/mm³)
Proposal for prenatal nutritional assistance in primary care in Manguinhos area.
Proposal for prenatal nutritional assistance in primary care in Manguinhos area.
Intervention group: 122 pregnant women followed a nutritional care protocol through three collective consultations throughout the prenatal, one every quarter, with duration of 1 hour and 15 minutes, which were developed educational activities related to health and nutrition. Control group: 162 pregnant women did not follow the nutritional care protocol over prenatal care. The pregnancy complications and outcomes inadequacy of total gestational weight gain in both groups were studied. We tested the association between the possible determinants of pregnancy complications and inadequate weight gain in pregnant women, through bivariate analysis, estimating the odds ratio (OR) Gross with confidence intervals (CI) of 95% by through the simple logistic regression.
Pregnant women with a single fetus, without chronic diseases prior to pregnancy and who were followed by the prenatal clinic of the study.
Pregnant women street residents; who have had abortions and stillborn son during the pregnancy; those who moved to another area that was not covered by the family clinic of the study and who did not present data on postpartum.
Inadequacy of total gestational weight gain: anthropometric and total gestational weight gain evaluation was made based on the measures: pre-pregnancy weight informed and measured up to the 13th week of gestation, height and pre-birth weight or the last query pre natal before delivery. It was calculated and evaluated the body mass index before pregnancy, according to the cutoff points proposed by the Institute of Medicine (2009). The total gestational weight gain was estimated by subtracting the pre-pregnancy weight of the pre-birth weight or registered in the last prenatal visit that took place no later than 7 days before delivery.
The pregnancy complications considered were: hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, gestational diabetes, gestational anemia and urinary tract infection, identified as medical records and exams available in the medical records or cards of pregnant women.
Stability Evaluation and Clinical-Laboratory Study to Verify and Compare Efficay and Safety of Retinoic Acid Cream 0.05% and 5% in Superficial Peels
Stability Evaluation and Clinical-Laboratory Study to Verify and Compare Efficay and Safety of Retinoic Acid Cream 0.05% and 5% in Superficial Peels



      24 research
Healthy women that past menopause and were not hormone replacement of any kind, over the age of 60; phototypes II and III according to Fitzpatrick
Local treatment, except sunscreens, with tretinoin for at least 6 months, other retinoids, alpha-hydroxy acids, polyhydroxy acids, beta-hydroxy acids and ascorbic acid for at least 3 months; previous treatment with oral retinoid in the last 6 months; previous treatment with superficial chemical peels, microdermabrasion and laser non-ablative, for a period not exceeding three months; presence of infectious or inflammatory dermatoses in the upper limbs; chemotherapy in the last three months; clinical evidence of immunosuppression.
Clinical improvement of photodamaged skin of the forearm, supported by additional tests (photographic scale, noninvasive assays, histological and immunohistochemical findings) after topical treatment with retinoic acid, but with a statistically significant difference between the two therapeutic models (0.05% vs. 5%).  
Differences between the two tolerability therapeutic models (0.05% vs. 5%), evaluated clinically and by means of noninvasive tests (corneometry, for example).
Physical exercise and feeding influence over obesity, high pressure, diabetes and high cholesterol in adults and elderly from Santo Antônio de Goiás city.
Metabolic syndrome: prevalence and effects of physical exercise and nutritional supplementation in adults and elderly of Santo Antônio de Goiás city.
33 women underwent of exercise supervised program, 24 weeks longer (3 times/week, 60 minutes/session). Trainig consisted of 1) warm and stretching (10 minutes); 2 circuit-based free weight exercise (35 minutes, 8 execises, 3 circuit laps, 60 seconds of exercise, 30 seconds for passage exercise); 3) walk or jogging (10 minutes); 4 cooldown (5 minutes). Were evaluated socio-demographic characteristics, weekly energy expenditure resultant from exercise session, weight, body mass index, sum skin fold, waist circumference, waist-hip ratio, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, total cholesterol, total triglycerides, fasting glucose, fasting insulinemia and HOMA-IR. The end of study group was splited into tertiles according weekly energy expenditure resultant from exercise program and then were runned intragroup and intergroup variable comparisions from baseline, after three and six months of physical exercise.
Women, 20 to 60 years old range, phisically inactive, body mass index higher than 25kg/m2, waist circumference higher than 88cm, any morbidity presench such as hypertension, hyperglycemia or dislipidemias.
Presence of orthopedic limitation, neurological or cardiovascular disease that prevent oriented physical moderate exercise.
ANOVA from repetead measures test with Bonferroni post hoc indicated sum skin fold reduced from group as a whole; only higher active group showed waist circumference statistical reduction and waist-hip ratio showed clinical (WHR<0,85) and statistical reduction  after six intervention months; lower active group showed reduction of HDL-cholesterol between the beginning and end study. ANOVA one factor test with Bonferroni post hoc indicated at six intervention months HDL-c from lower active group was significantly lower than HDL-cholesterol from higher active group. There were no alteration from any glicemic metabolism variable.
Program exercise adherece from group as a whole was lower (47% frequency). Chi-square test indicated that lower level paticipation group had more obese women than overweight (4,5 obese from 1 overweight ratio), however higher active group had even ratio (1 obese from 1,2 oeverweight ratio).
Abiraterone acetate in Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Abiraterone acetate in Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer, Chemo-naive, Who Received a Prior Diethylstiboestrol Therapy- 212082PCR2036
Abiraterone acetate: Participants will receive abiraterone acetate 1000 mg (4*250 mg tablets) orally once daily until PSA progression, clinical progression, consent withdrawal, or the occurrence of unacceptable toxicity; Prednisone: Participants will receive prednisone 5 mg orally once daily from Day 1 of Cycle 1 and continues until PSA progression, clinical progression, consent withdrawal, or the occurrence of unacceptable toxicity; N is a total of 45 participants, being 35 Brazilian participants
Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate without neuroendocrine differentiation or small cell histology; Prior therapy with diethylstilbestrol (DES) for castration resistant prostate cancer; Participants should demonstrate evidence of progression on DES or evidence of grades 3/4 toxicities on DES; Metastatic disease documented by positive bone scan or metastatic lesions on computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); May have received prior androgen blockage (bicalutamide or flutamide) but must have been discontinued for least 28 days;  Ongoing androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone [LHRH] agonist or orchiectomy), with serum testosterone level of less than 50 nanogram per deciliter (1.7 nanomole per liter); Eligible participants must maintain ADT
Active infection or other medical condition that would make prednisone use contraindicated; Any chronic medical condition requiring a higher systemic dose of corticosteroid than 5 milligram (mg) prednisone per day; Pathological finding consistent with small cell carcinoma of the prostate; Known brain metastasis; Has had prior cytotoxic chemotherapy or biologic therapy for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC)

Time to Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Progression – Up to 3 years - Time to PSA progression is calculated from date of enrollment to the date of first documentation of PSA progression. As per Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2) criteria, PSA progression is defined as greater than or equal to (>=) 25 percent (%) and >=2 nanogram/milliliter (ng/mL) after 12 weeks (in case of no decline in PSA from Baseline), or first PSA increase that is >=25% and >=2 ng/mL above the nadir, and which is confirmed by a second value 3 or more weeks later (in case of decline of PSA from Baseline).
Percentage of Participants Achieving Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Response- Up to 3 years - The PSA response is defined as at least 50% decrease in PSA level from Baseline. Maximal Change From Baseline in Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA) Response at Week 12 - Baseline and Week 12 - The PSA response is defined as at least 50% decrease in PSA level from Baseline. The maximal change from Baseline in PSA response at Week 12 will be reported. Overall Survial Time - Every 3 months until death, assessed up to 3 years - Overall survival is defined as the time from enrollment to date of death due to any cause. Brief Pain Inventory – Short Form (BPI-SF) Score - Day 1 of Cycle 1; Day 28 of every 2 cycles up to 3 years The BPI-SF is a publicly available instrument to assess the pain. Total score is an average of the pain interference score (mean value for the 9 BPI-SF questions [questions inquiring about the extent of interference with activities by pain, where the extent is ranked from 0 (does not interfere) to 10 (completely interferes)]) and pain subscale score (mean value for the scores for BPI-SF questions 3, 4, 5 and 6 [questions inquiring about the extent of pain, where the extent is ranked from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine)]). Total score ranges from 0 to 10 with higher values indicating more pain Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) - Day 1 up to 30 days after last dose administration - An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who will receive study drug without  regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE is an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; or congenital anomaly.
Effects of substances used after dental bleaching
In situ and in vivo study of bioactive agents effects on bleached enamel 
Experimental group 1:- 20 volunteers  of both genders were treated with in-office bleaching using 35% hydrogen peroxide, and the application of sodium and calcium phosphosilicate (NovaMin). Experimental group 2: 20 volunteers of both genders received in-office bleaching with 35% hydrogen peroxide , and the application of phosphopeptide casein-modified amorphous calcium phosphate (CPP-ACPF).Control group: 20 volunteers of both genders were treated with in-office bleaching using 35% hydrogen peroxide.
60 people aged between 18 and 26 years; any genders; good health; non-smoking; pH and salivary flow within normal limits; healthy  teeth and initial color A2 or darker according to the Vita scale.
Having received previous dental bleaching ; restorations on the anterior teeth; pregnant or nursing women; having teeth darkened by tetracycline, fluorosis or endodontic treatment; patients with teeth grinding; having non-carious cervical lesion; and dentin hypersensitivity.
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 4 weeks. It is not expected interference in results of the bleaching treatment in the groups assessed, verified by spectrophotometry, from the observation of the increase in the value of Delta E (indicating the success of the bleaching treatment), after 4 weeks.
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 1, 2 and 3 weeks.
Orthoses for thumb osteoarthritis: a functional and kinematic analysis
The Use of Orthotics for Thumb Osteoarthritis: Kinematic and Functional Analysis
20 patients with thumb osteoarthritis diagnostic will answer the Health assessment questionnaire in order to classify their functional impairment due to the disease. Participants will then underwent a Kinematic Analysis during the performance of the Jebsen-Taylor Hand Dexterity Test : Individuals will be evaluated through the motion analysis Qualisys ProReflex MCU system with 8 cameras and Qualisys Track Manager data capture software, with a posterior analysis through Visual 3D software. The hand function test consist in the manipulation of metalic, non-perforant objects (a can, spoon and small pieces of different diameters) and a small paper card. The time used to complete the activities will be measured and used as the test score. Every participant will repeat the test under two condition: with and without a orthosis.

Subjects diagnosed with osteoarthritis of the thumb joint carpometacarpia, via radiographic and clinical indicative suggested by the American College of Rheumatology. Will be included subject  with osteoarthritis severity between rates 1 and 3 in the Radiographic Kellgren-Lawrence, corresponding to mild to moderate disease status. Inclusion criteria also will consider patients over 18 years, with no age  limit and subjects who present no cognitive limitations that prevent them from answering the Health Assessment Questionnaire, a self administered instrument that assesses the degree of difficulty in performing activities of daily living.
Subjects withupper limb pain or functional limitations. Subjects with thumb OA in stage 4 of Kellgren-Lawrence Radiographic Scale.
Improvement of functional performance; for the measure of this outcome the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) and the Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test will be used as assessment tools. Changes of at least 5% between the scores obtained pre and post interventions will be considered for the evaluation of the primary outcome.
Pain at the carpometacarpal joint and thumb range of motion; The analog visual scale (AVS) will be used to evaluate joint pain while the thumb range of motion will be measured through the Qualysis Track Manager (QTM) software.Changes of at least 5% between the scores obtained pre and post interventions will be considered for the evaluation of the primary outcome.
Effects of Cognitive Therapy of motor learning for children with cerebral palsy
Effects of Cognitive Orientation to daily occupational performance (CO-OP) for children with cerebral palsy
CO-OP treatment, consisting of 13 sessions, with 11 children, will be individualized and held twice a week totaling six weeks. Each session will last 45 minutes, occurring at the same time the Occupational Therapy service of AMR. Sessions one and 13 will be used to shoot the children performing the tasks chosen in PEGS before and after the intervention. At number seven session, parents will be invited for a chat, to ask questions about the therapy program and verify that they have been able to use the CO-OP strategies at home. At the end of the intervention, two external evaluators, blinded, punctuate the performance of children in the filming, and the segments of videos will be presented randomly, so that the examiners do not know if the evaluated following refers to before or after the intervention. Parents will be invited to attend the sessions and will receive a booklet containing information about CO-OP. guidelines will also be provided for continued use of cognitive strategies in the home context.
Conventional treatment of occupational therapy or control group will also consist of 13 sessions, 11 children, twice a week and 45 minutes with the child
Children with cerebral palsy; aged 7 and 14; classified by the Classification System of the Gross Motor Function (GMFCS) levels I or II; sorted by System Manual Function Classification (MACS) in levels I, II and III have cognitive skills to understand commands and verbal communication and attending occupational therapy visits with weekly frequency.

Children who have some visual impairment and / or hearing; children who have been subjected to the use of botulinum toxin and / or orthopedic surgery in the six months preceding the study.
Transfer of skills learned to other activities, as measured in an extra goal not trained by the score of parents in Canadian Occupational Performance Measure.
Manual dexterity measured by The Box and Block Test (BBT). 
Treating blood-less legs with infra-red radiation.
The effect of far-infrared emitting socks on claudicant patients - a randomized clinical trial
Intervention-arm: 20 claudicant patients will be assigned to use a infrared-emmitting stripe on the affected calf, associated with the standard treatment: cilostazol, ASA and a walking program. This stripe will be used at sleep or at 10:00 PM until the next morning, on waking up, during 90 days. Control-arm: 20 claudicant patients will be assigned to use a placebo stripe on the affected calf, associated with the standard treatment: cilostazol, ASA and a walking program. This stripe will be used at sleep or at 10:00 PM until the next morning, on waking up, during 90 days.
Patients with calf intermittent claudication, between 18 and 90 years old, with clinical evident stenosis or occlusion of the external iliac artery or common or superficial femoral artery; ankle-brachial index at or less than 0,9.
Impossibility to deambulate freely; DVT active or in the past; cancer; diabetic neuropathy needing specific treatment; major amputation.
6-minute walk test, in meters walked and by a percentage of the previewed for each patient. This measurement will be made in a standard manner, comprising walks on plain floor, in a patient-defined speed, with possible stops and smooth support words. An increment of 20 meters of the basal walked distance will be considered significative.
Quality of life questionnaire: will be used a portuguese-validated version, with it's four domains: physical, psychological, social and environment. Increments of 10% will be considered significants.
Pharmaceutical care in the basic health unit
Pharmaceutical care in primary care
Experimental group: 33 individuals of both sexes, diagnosed with metabolic syndrome according to the criteria defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program / Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP / ATP III), which received pharmaceutical guidelines and monthly home visits follow-up for six months. Interventions consisted of guidance to patients and the provision of information to other health professionals when necessary. The guidelines were of a general nature comprising stimulating following the prescribed dose, sodium restriction, moderation in consumption of carbohydrates, replacing saturated fats, physical activity when possible (moderate rate hikes of about 30 minutes at least three times a week ). Specific and individualized guidance was provided for resolving 
problems related to drugs characteristic, especially those related to drug therapy ineffective in use or health problems untreated.
patients with metabolic syndrome; both genders; age above 18 years
pregnant women; people with cognitive difficulties
Decrease in the number of drug related problems (DRPs) The efficacy of pharmaceutical interventions was measured by comparing the number of MICs measured at the beginning and end of the study. The number of DRPs per patient was recorded and categorized according to the Manual Pharmaceutical Care Practice: The Clinician's Guide, Second Edition, 2004. Made the statistical analysis were considered significant P values less than 0.05.
Decrease cardiovascular risk in 10 years. The calculation of the absolute risk of coronary events in 10 years used the Framingham Risk Score. Made statistical analysis were considered Significant P values less than 0.05.
Comparison of drugs for anxiety relief before heart surgery
Randomized blind prospective study: a comparison of midazolan, morphine or clonidine as premedication for cardiac surgery
The patients wil be divided into 3 groups(n=30 in each). The groups will receive the medication 45 minutes prior to surgery. Midazolam group:midazolam 7,5 mg, orally. Morphine group: morphine 0,2 mg/kg, to maximum dose of 14 mg. Clonidine group: clonidine 5 mg/kg, to maximum dose of  300mg. Interventions on arrival to operating room: Blood pressure, heart and respiratory rate and arterial oxygen saturation by pulse oximeter, will be measured.
Patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass,age of 18-65 years.
Non-elective surgery, weigh less than 50 or more than 100 kg,history of psychiatric disorder,ASA physics status of class IV, patients with a mental impairment, knowledge about allergy to studied drugs,  patients with congenital cardiac disease and the patients that don
The effect of midazolam, clonidine and morphine  on the systolic  arterial pressure in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, on arrival to operating room. On arrival to operating room will be measured the blood pressure (systolic) of patient.
Effects of three drugs on recall (amnésia). The amnésia will be evaluated by showing to patients 3 pictures and 3 words, printed on a card. At postoperative period, after awakening, the patients will be queried to recall of the pictures and words.
Effects of a flichart on breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding
Effects of an Educational Technology in self-Efficacy to Breastfeed and Practice of exclusive breastfeeding
Intervention: The educative intervention using the flipchart about self-efficacy to breastfeed was performed with 56 pregnant women during their third semester of pregnancy, in a single moment, individualized, lasting between 30 to 40 minutes. The intervention was performed in a room localized in the basic unit of health care.

Control: The 56 pregnant women receveid routine orientations about breastfeeding during prenatal consult.
Pregnant during third trimester; breastfeeding plans; literate; have telephone or cellphone


women with multiple gestations; clinical limitation to breastfeed
Comparing the self-efficacy scores to breastfeed before and after the educative intervention we observed statistically diference in the mean scores of the Breastfeeding Self-efficacy Scale- Short Form between women in the intervention group (56 women) and control group (56 women) (p<0,001) at second, fourth and octave week postpartum. At the octave week we observed increase in the proportions of women with high efficacy in the intervention group with statistically significant diference between the groups (p<0,001). The probability of women in the intervention group to reach high efficacy scores was 1,4 higher then the women in the control group, at the octave week postpartum.
The results showed statistically diference (p<0,001) between the breastfeeding rates in the intervention group and control group, with risk relative of 2,2 by comparing the breastfeeding rates between women in the intervention group and control group at the octave week postpartum.
Light Therapy for Treatment of Lesions of the Nipple
Photobiomodulation as a New Approach for the Treatmment of Nipple Traumas: A Pilot Study
Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: control or experimental. The control group will receive guidance on breastfeeding and the experimental group will receive, in addition, applications of phototherapy. Control group (orientation): the participants of this group receive individual guidance on the care and proper techniques for breast feeding. The information will be passed verbally and reinforced by an educational brochure on initial assessment, the third and sixth weeks of the study, always by the same professional, blind to treatment group the participant. Experimental group (orientation, light therapy): the participants of this group will receive, in addition to guidance on the breast care and proper techniques for feeding, phototherapy applications through fotobiomodulador a device developed specifically for the treatment of nipple injuries. The parameters for applications are: continuous mode of emission, power output 10 mW, wavelength infrared (scanning from 880 to 904 nm) fluence of 4 J/cm ² and total application time of 10 minutes. The application of the device will be three times per week on alternate days for seven consecutive weeks, totaling 21 sessions.
To participate in the study, women should have a medical diagnosis of nipple trauma were not infected and aged 18 to 35 years.
Exclusion criteria was considered: previous history of cancer, use of other therapeutic modalities that might interfere with the healing of the lesions, presence of infected wounds, history of photosensitivity to light, cognitive deficits that undermine the understanding and implementation of guidelines of care for breast.
Pain: pain intensity will be evaluated using the Visual Numeric Scale (VNS). The EVN will be applied at baseline and at the beginning of each week of treatment, for six consecutive weeks.
Quality of life: the impact of the presence of nipple fissures and cracks in the quality of life of the mothers will be assessed by the SF-36 (short version), applied at baseline, in the third and sixth weeks of the study.
Hammock position and nesting in premature babies: a comparative study
Hammock position and nest in premature infants: a randomized controlled trial
The study is a clinical trial type cross over. The sample consisted of 20 preterm infants submitted to the two groups surveyed.

Group control (20 premature babies):
Premature babies with post gestational age between 32-37 weeks design;
Spontaneous breathing in room air;
No injury or bone fracture; 
No apnea history less than 72h;
Better quality of sleep of premature when in hammocks. For the evaluation of premature sleep, we used parameters developed by Prechtl (1974), which provide discrete scores of deep sleep states to cry, namely: Deep sleep = 1, active sleep = 2, drowsiness = 3, alert quiet = 4 = 5 active alert, crying = 6. The state of sleep and wakefulness.   
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Patients who require more tube at the oral region, to breathe after heart surgery
Risk factors for intubation in patients after cardiac surgery.
Collection of May Database 2007 to April 2015por trained professional and all information was worked confidentially. data from 1640 patients undergoing surgery or cardiac procedures were analyzed, forwarded to postoperative adult ICU demographic characteristics, type of surgery (emergency or elective) indication for surgery (valve replacement, coronary artery bypass, aneurysm, heart transplantation) , comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, arrtimias, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), post-operative complications, presence of transient disturbance of gas exchange (DTTG), use of non-invasive ventilation (NIV), mortality and severity scores (SOFA , EUROSCORE and APACHE II). To compare proportions, we used the chi-square test or Fisher
Patients of both genres; oldee of 14-80 years; individuals who underwent heart surgery; in the intensive care unit; under mechanical ventilation; endotracheal intubation and daily evaluation by the nursing staff.
Patients undergoing cardiac procedures in the analyzed period; but were not forwarded to postoperative ICU or had incomplete information in the database were excluded from the study.
The reintubation rate found is high, is related to worse scores of SOFA, APACHE II and EUROSCORE. 
Mortality was higher in the group that did not receive VNI before reintubation. The use of NIV after extubation may be a strategy to reduce this complication and perhaps mortality in this group of patients.
Biological and psychological correlates of mental illnesses
Biological and neurocognitive markers in neuropsychiatry
Fifty patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder will be randomized to receive one single session of transcranial direct current stimulation (1-2 mAs) on the supplementary motor area for 20 minutes (experimental group) or one single sham session of transcranial direct current on the supplementary motor area for 20 minutes (control group). Both experimental and control groups will include 25 patients each.
Fifty patients with a diagnosis of obsessive-compulsive disorder according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5); aged between 18 and 50 years; with at least primary school; able to use computers; under regular pharmacological treatment for at least 3 months.
Any condition that hinders the smooth progress of the procedure as psychiatric comorbidities that impedes the assessment with the dotprobe task or with symptom severity scales; cardiac pacemakers and some brands of cerebral aneurysm clips; cochlear implants and neurostimulators; firearm projectiles and other metal fragments depending on the location in the body.
Main primary endpoint: reduction of attentional bias of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder submitted to transcranial direct current stimulation. The Dot Probe Task will be used to verify the reduction of attentional bias. To determine the expected outcome, a statistically significant change on the average reaction time in milliseconds to stimuli related to obsessive-compulsive disorder presented in the dot-probe task before vs. after stimulation transcranial direct current will be used. Additional primary endpoint: reduction in the severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. To verify the reduction of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Challenge Scale will be used. To determine the expected outcome, a statistically significant decrease in the scores of Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Challenge scale after stimulation transcranial direct current will be used.
Main secondary endpoint: Reduction of obsessive-compulsive symptoms as categorical variable. To verify the status of response to treatment, the Yale-Brown obsessive compulsive challenge scale will be used. To determine the expected outcome, a decrease of at least 25% of the initial scores of the Yale-Brown obsessive -compulsive challenge after transcranial direct current stimulation will be used. Additional secondary endpoint: Reduction of negative affect. To verify the reduction of negative affect, the scale of positive and negative affects will be used. To determine the expected outcome, statistically significant decreases in negative subscores of the positive and negative affect scale after transcranial direct current stimulation will be used.
Effects of protein supplementation in patients with low energy diet for the treatment of weight regain in the late postoperative surgical reduction of the stomach
Efects of Metabolic and nutritional protein supplement diet in patients with low energy diet for treatment of weight regain in the late postoperative bariatric surgery
Intervention study, a randomized, controlled, lasting 16 weeks. The patients will be women who underwent bariatric surgery for over 24 months and have weight regain more than 5% of the lowest weight achieved. Intervention group: 15 women will ingest low energy diet with the same value to resting energy expenditure, protein supplementation with 1g/kg ideal weight of protein whey (whey protein powder). Control group: 15 women without protein supplementation and diet low energy diet with the same value to resting energy expenditure. Will be measured weight, energy expenditure, body composition, blood lipid profile - total cholesterol, LDL and HDL, blood glucose, serum albumin, insulin, adiponectin, cholecystokinin, IL-6 and TNF-alpha by blood test at the beginning (before intervention), middle (after 2 months) and end of the intervention (after 4 months)
60 patients 18-55 years old, female, undergoing surgery for gastric bypass with surgery in Roux-Y for more than 24 months and who had regained weight of at least 5% of the lowest weight achieved during treatment.
Patients with decompensated diabetes on hormone treatment, with renal or hepatic disease or using any medication for loss weight.
Outcome found: significant gain lean mass and weight to the intervention group
Outcome found: No change in the levels of adiponectin, cholecystokinin, IL-6, TNF-alpha and insulin  Improvement in glycated hemoglobin levels in both groups and improves total cholesterol and fractions in the control group  Significant increase in lean body mass in the intervention group
The effect of elastic bandage in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee
The effectiveness of taping in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee - randomized clinical trial: pilot study
control group: 20 patients will undergo stretching exercises, strengthening and balance training lasting 60 minutes each therapy, 2 times per week over 8 weeks. Intervention group: 20 patients will undergo the same exercises the control group, but with the addition of patellar bracing lasting 60 minutes each therapy, 2 times per week over 8 weeks
adult patients referred AACD - Lar Escola São Francisco diagnosed with moderate knee osteoarthritis and agree to participate in the study according to the term informed consent
patients with rheumatic diseases associated orthopedic surgery of the lower limbs prior injections of steroids in the past six months, obesity (BMI
Primary endpoint: pain  The pain will be measured by the Visual Analogue Scale, which will be applied by  by an independent observer blinded, at baseline (pre-intervention) after four and eight weeks of treatment.  It is expected that the application of banding associated with the exercise program (intervention group) results in improvement of pain compared to the control group, which only perform the exercise program based therapy.
Secondary endpoint: function  The functional capacity will be assessed by the WOMAC questionnaire, containing 17 questions regarding the degree of difficulty in performing activities of daily living.  The questionnaire will be applied by  by an independent observer blinded, at baseline (pre-intervention) and after eight weeks of treatment. It is expected that the use of taping associated with the exercise program (intervention group) to provide patients with better functional outcomes compared to patients in the control group, which performs the same exercise therapy, but without the additional use of taping.
Platelet Rich Plasma infiltration for Hip Bursitis
Comparison of Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) infiltration with Corticosteroid + Local anesthetic in patients with Hip tendinobursitis
Twenty hips with diagnosis of hip tendinobursitis underwent extra-articular infiltration guided by ultrasound after they signed an informed consent. All the patients were blind because they didn
Twenty hips; both genders; aged eighteen to seventy nine years; more than three months of lateral hip pain; pain over the greater trochanter; painful with forced hip abduction; pain at rest; magnetic resonance imaging with diagnosis of tendinobursitis.
Previous hip infiltrations; intra articular hip disorders; spinal disorders; sciatic; neurological diseases associated with motor abnormalities; fibromyalgia; polyarthralgia or any other rheumatological diagnoses.
Only the corticosteroid group showed statistically significant average improvement from the pre-treatment time point to the other time points (p <0.05) for the Facial Expressions Scale for Pain and Western Ontario MacMaster Score.
We had no adverse effects in this study. There were no cases of infection, musculotendinous rupture or Trendelenburg's sign.
Treating asthmatic children to prevent asthma exacerbations
Treating asthmatic children to prevent asthma exacerbations (TREXA-Minas Gerais Research Protocol)
Frequency, dose and duration of the intervention: the 150 patients assigned to 
Patients of both sexes aged six to eighteen years old, able to perform spirometry, suffering from mild persistent asthma in the past two years according to the criteria of the GINA (Global Strategy for Asthma) and fall into at least one of the following criteria: never used inhaled corticosteroids , anti - leukotrienes , beta- agonists, long-acting and report occurrence of exacerbations in the last two years, but none in the last three months; be in use of inhaled corticosteroids in the past eight weeks, at a daily dose equal to or greater than 250 mcg / day of beclomethasone; be well controlled in the last eight weeks with the use of 250 mcg of beclomethasone and no smoking during the last year.

Treatment with other formulations of corticosteroids for any condition within the range defined prior to recruitment, e.g., oral route two weeks prior to the period of run in or parenteral route within   two weeks of screening visits; previous or current use of medication known to interact with the bioavailability of beclomethasone within a period of two weeks from the first follow up visit , namely , carbamazepine , erythromycin or other macrolide , phenobarbital , phenytoin , rifampin and ketoconazole; Spirometry showing pre bronchodilator FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in one second) less than 60 % of predicted value at first follow visit; hospitalization for asthma in the last year ; presence of other chronic or active disease other than asthma , namely , thyroid disease , diabetes mellitus , Cushing
FEV1 values ranged from 87% to 89% of the predicted value during the follow up in both groups (p=0.35)  ACT ranged from 21 to 22 points during the follow up in both groups (p=0.38).
Beclomethasone consumption among the two groups was: 5,9 grams in the intermitent group and 13,1 grams in the continuous one (p <0,001).
Characterization of trigger points in the rectus abdominis muscle in women with chronic pelvic pain using electromyography.
Characterization of local mechanisms (trigger points) of abdominal myofascial syndrome in women with chronic pelvic pain using surface and needle electromyography.
The women included were initially interviewed to obtain clinical history and physical examination in order to confirm trigger point.  The intensity of pain was evaluated by visual analog scale for pain and the pain threshold was measured in the forearm by algometry. These assessments were made in the first interview and after 3 months. All patients also underwent needle electromyography in trigger point and in a point contralateral painless by an independent observer, just once, right after the initial interview.
Women with chronic pelvic pain; age over 18 years; presence of all clinical diagnostic criteria for abdominal myofascial pain syndrome.
Women with typical clinical symptoms of endometriosis or painful bladder syndrome or irritable bowel syndrome or other disease that justify or contribute to chronic pelvic pain; endometrioma or hernia evidenced by ultrasound of abdominal wall; obesity (BMI 
Expected: We evaluated the pain intensity before and after the reference treatment by visual analogue pain scale; Found: 93.8% of women in the group of electromyographic changes had significant reduction in pain intensity; however, only 38.5% of women with normal EMG pattern showed significant improvement.
Expected: We evaluated the pain threshold at the trigger point before and after treatment by algometry (the minimum pressure required to cause the sensation of pain in trigger point); Found: there was no significant difference in pain thresholds, regardless of electromyographic patterns.
Assessment of balance and muscle function in elderly women with osteoporosis after exercises with vibratory rod
Analysis of functional balance and electromyographic activity of elderly women with osteoporosis submited of balance training with vibratory rod 
Vibratory Rod Training: 20 older women with diagnostic of osteoporosis,non-institutionalized will perform 8 weeks of training with balance exercises to vibrate the vibrating rod, 2 sessions weekly with 30 minutes each session

Non Vibratory Rod Training: 20 older women with diagnostic of osteoporosis,non-institutionalized will perform 8 weeks of training with balance exercises without making the vibration of vibrating rod, 2 sessions weekly with 30 minutes each session
Older; aged 60-80 years; with osteoporosis diagnosed by bone densitometry examination considering T-Score:equal or less than -2.5 SD; physically active acording to IPAQ which considered moderate and vigorous activities daily and weekly according to 8 answer questions; no pain; no fracture; no severe soft tissue injury in the six months preceding the study; no neurological changes; no cardiovascular changes; no respiratory changes; score upper to 18 points in Mini-Mental State test which considers that guidance notions, immediate memory, attention and calculation, recall and language.
pain, fractures or severe soft tissue injury in the 6 months preceding the study, and neurological, cardiovascular or respiratory diseases.
Increased activation of the vastus lateralis muscle post vibration rod training.
Maintenance of functional balance post vibration rod training.
Evaluation of muscle strength, exercise capacity, heart rate and blood inflammatory of patients with chronic obstructive  pulmonary disease submited to physical exercises
Functional and biological evaluation of subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease submited to protocols of physical training



Treatment groups will be randomized at random and will consist of 75 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that participate in a pulmonary rehabilitation program with resistance training with elastic cords or weight machines and a control group, also with COPD who participate only evaluations. Resistance training with tubes (Strings) elastic: 25 subjects will be submitted to resistance training (strength) three times a week elastic tubes, with rest interval between 24 to 72 hours. The sessions will last 60 minutes and at the beginning of the session will be held stretches vitals globais.Serão checked at the beginning, during and at the end of sessões.Os training will run periodized and progressively. The distribution of training driving dynamics will be as follows: 1st to 3rd week: 2x15 RM; 4th to 6th week: 3x15 RM; 7th to 9th week: 3x10 RM; 10th to 12th week: 4x6 RM. The training will last three months
conventional resistance training (bodybuilding): 25 subjects will be submitted to resistance training (strength) in weight machines three times a week with rest interval between 24 to 72 hour
Patients must have a diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; both genders; tifennau index less than 70 percent; be aged between 45 and 70 years; being clinically stable.

Cardiac comorbidities and musculoskeletal disorders; exacerbation within one month of the initial evaluation.
Increased muscle strength of the patients in both resistance training and maintenance programs in the control group; checked by digital dynamometer; based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Improved functional capacity of patients most evident in elastic resistance group compared to conventional and maintenance in the control group; verified by the 6-minute walk test (6MWT); from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.  Increase in anti-inflammatory cytokines in patients in both resistance training groups and maintenance in the control group; verified by blood test method ELISA ; from the realization of a range of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Low Level Laser Therapy and exercise to patients with chronic pain and rheumatic diseases: randomized clinical trials with pain , quality of life, functionality assessments and biomechanical aspects.
Low Level Laser Therapy and exercise to patients with chronic pain and rheumatic diseases: randomized clinical trials with pain , quality of life, functionality assessments and biomechanical aspects.
1nd group - placebo: 30 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 30 patients with osteoarthritis of the hands are subjected to simulation with low intensity laser therapy.
2nd group - 30 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 30 patients with osteoarthritis of the hands are subjected to laser therapy with low intensity, with energy 14J applied by hand by finger 2J and 4J by hand.
Being older than 18 years; To track across at least one of the clinics, with diagnosis made by the medical staff; Be able to fill out the consent form and clear.
Having the diagnosis of acute pain; severe psychiatric disorder; Diagnosis of chronic infectious disease; acute or chronic underlying disease with a high probability of death soon; exercise performance or other intensive treatment for pain for up to 48 hours of data collection.
Decrease in disease activity parameters, measured by CDAI (Clinical Disease Activity Index), DAS-28 (Disease Activity Score 28) of at least 5% in pre and post-intervention measurements. Decrease in pain parameter evaluated by VAS- visual analogue scale, BID - brief inventory of pain at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Decrease in disease activity parameters, measured by thermography at least 5% in the pre and post-intervention measurements. Decreased pain parameter algometry evaluated by at least 5% in pre and post-intervention measurements. Improvement in the parameters of quality of life, assessed by questionnaires: WHOQOL-Bref - (Quality Quick Quiz World Health Organization of Life) and SF-36 (Medical Outcomes Study 36 - Item Short - Form Health Survey) of at least 5 % in the pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in parameters of functional capacity and functionality evaluated by tests: HAQ-DI (Health Assessment Questionnaire), DASH (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand) and Jebsen-Taylor test (manual dexterity test) of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in strength parameters through the assessment of grip strength of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in muscle activation parameters using the electromyography analysis of at least 5% in pre and post-intervention measurements. Improvement in the kinematic parameters of movement through the movement Qualisys evaluation of at least 5% in the pre and post-intervention measurements.
Nutritional status and inflammatory profile of patients with cancer of the oral cavity in pre-antineoplastic treatment (Chemotherapy/Radiotherapy/Surgery) before and after nutritional supplementation.
Nutritional status and inflammatory profile of patients with cancer of the oral cavity in pre-antineoplastic treatment (Chemotherapy/Radiotherapy/Surgery) before and after nutritional supplementation.
The patients will go through a sorting, and if they are classified as malnourished or at nutritional risk and if they meet the criteria of inclusion, will be invited to participate in the study, by explanations about the same and signed the free and informed consent term. Accepting to participate in the study, the patients will pass through two consultations at the Clinic of Nutrition, two blood collections and use of nutritional supplementation during four weeks. In the first consultation will be collected personal data, family history of cancer, history of smoking and alcoholism and tumor staging.In addition to data of gastrointestinal symptoms, evaluation of body compartments and laboratory assessment. After collecting the data above, the patient receives the dietary guidance and the revenue of nutritional supplementation. The second consultation will be four weeks after the first, should be scheduled in the reception of the Nutrition Outpatient Care Clinic, so that the patient leaves the first consultation. Will be collected only data of gastrointestinal symptoms, evaluation of body compartments and laboratory assessment.
The inclusion criteria were patients who were referred to the Outpatient Clinic of nutrition in pre-antineoplastic treatment (chemotherapy/radiotherapy/surgery) with cancer of the oral cavity enrolled at the National Institute of Cancer, age between 40 to 75 years, malnutrition or nutritional risk, and agreed to participate in the study by signing the Free and Informed Consent Term after being informed about the reasons for the study and collaboration that is expected of them.
Exclusion criteria were diabetes mellitus, liver disease, renal disease, treatment with radiotherapy or chemotherapy already started or has already performed at another time.
The weight gain in a period of four weeks, verified by measurement of weight pre and post intervention, in digital scale, from a variation of at least one kilo between the measures.
The gain of lean mass in the period of 4 weeks, verified by bioimpedance in pre and post intervention, from a variation of 3% between the measures.
Use of medications in preventing sensitivity arising from tooth bleaching.
Use of medications in preventing sensitivity arising from tooth bleaching.
Experimental group: Thirty patients will take an anti-inflammatory  drug (dexamethasone 8 mg) 1 hour before the bleaching protocol. Additional doses of dexamethasone (4 mg) will be administered every 6 hours for a period of 48 hours. 

Control group: Thirty participants will take one capsule of placebo (8 mg) 1 hour before the bleaching protocol. Additional doses of placebo will be administered every 6 hours for a period of 48 hours. The placebo will consist of all the excipients of the dexamethasone, except the active principle (dexamethasone).
Patients older than 18 years are included, with good oral and general health, with free maxillary anterior teeth restorations and do not carious lesion present, that have the color of A1 or darker teeth according to the color scale Classical Vita (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany).
Patients who already underwent tooth whitening, pregnant or lactating patients, who report tooth sensitivity, severe browning (staining tetracycline, fluorosis or endodontics), with parafunctional habits, patients with dental prostheses and appliances Orthodontic and any other oral pathology will be deleted. Still be excluded patients who have systemic symptoms such as problems 
stomach, heart, kidney and liver, diabetes, hypertension or who are making continuous use of any medication with analgesic action 
Observed outcome: The same expected outcome. No change in the outcome was done.
Observed outcome: The same expected outcome. No change in the outcome was done.
Influence of periodontal treatment in periodontitis and diabetes control
Interaction between chronic periodontitis and type II diabetes:  A randomized clinical trial to study the impact of periodontal treatment on severity of both pathologies by clinical, metabolic, immunology and microbiology parameters
The patients will be allocated into three groups:
Group 1: Conventional periodontal therapy, four sessions will be held with scaling and root planning with a maximum interval of 1 week and with duration of 60 min
Diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus; aged 35 years old or more; at least 15 teeth present; clinical and radiographic diagnosis of the presence of chronic periodontitis (AAP, 1999); agreing to participate the study.
Periodontal treatment over the past six months; using antibiotics in the last six months; pregnant women; woman breastfeeding; use of anti-inflammatory chronic form, presence of a systemic condition that might interfere in the course of periodontal disease (immune conditions) or systemic complications of Diabetes Mellitus, smoking.
Reduction of periodontal probing depth using periodontal probing; reduction in plaque index using visible plaque index
Improvement in oral health; reduction of blood glucose level
Effect of physical conditioning in patients with spinal cord injury to increase physical resistance.
Effectiveness of aerobic physical training applied to patients with spinal cord injury to increase oxygen consumption.
42 subjects with spinal cord injury between C5 and L2 segments regions were randomized into two groups.  In the intervention group, subjects were submitted to a risk evaluation and effort test before the start of the study and again after 16 weeks. It consisted of aerobic physical conditioning with moderate intensity for the Intervention group while the Control group was oriented to maintain their daily life activities. 
Individuals with SCI between segments C5 and L2 according to the classification of the American Spinal Injury Association
Individuals who do regular physical activity, community ambulators and individuals who were unable to pedal the cycle ergometer with their arms.
Increase oxygen consumption of intervention group comparing before the start of the study and again after 16 weeks. The stress test was used to measure oxygen consumption and was performed with an upper limb ergometer Cybex ®. The ergometry protocol used was of progressive loads with increments of 150 kilogrameters every 3 minutes of cycling followed by 1 minute of rest after each stage. In each rest phase heart rate and blood pressure were measured. For security reasons, it was chosen to work with the heart rate at 85% or 90% of maximum, accompanied by the perceived exertion scale.
Maintenance of oxygen consumption in the control group after 16 weeks.
Acute effects of smoker
Acute response of smoker
After initial assessment for obtaining personal data, smoking history, lung function, respiratory affections research, exhaustive and progressive treadmill test for the individual prescribing exercise intensity, all 66 smokers will be submitted to four distinct interventions that will occur in different days randomly. The interventions are: 1)moderate aerobic exercise for 20 minutes, followed by smoking two cigarettes for 20 minutes; 2)moderate aerobic exercise for 20 minutes; 3)smoking two cigarettes for 20 minutes, and 4)rest for 20 minutes in a sitting position. At the end of each intervention will be evaluated: heart rate variability, exhaled carbon monoxide, mucociliary clearance and vital signs. Regarding the control group (66 non-smokers), will undergo the same procedures, with the exception of interventions: 1)moderate aerobic exercise for 20 minutes, followed by smoking two cigarettes for 20 minutes and 3)smoking two cigarettes for 20 minutes.
Subjects between 30 and 50 years old, both genders, with normal lung function attested by spirometry and absence of illnesses that interfere with exercise performance or autonomic modulation (eg, cerebrovascular, cardiac, orthopedic, rheumatic or metabolic disease, diabetes, alcoholism).
Not comprehension or non-cooperation on the procedures and methods of research; non-attendance at one of the days of the experimental protocol; subjects with lung disease diagnosed, history of surgery or nasal trauma, nasal septal deviation or inflammation of the upper airways observed in clinical evaluation during the interview and experimental protocol.
Increased mucociliary clearance activity of smokers and nonsmokers after the exercise stimulus, evaluated by the saccharin transit time test.
There was an increase in mucociliary clearance activity after the exercise stimulus in smokers and nonsmokers. However, it was not expected that this response was similar between both groups, as observed in this study. For interventions, exercise followed by smoking and isolated smoking there was also an increase in mucociliary clearance in smokers, but without statistical differences among these (exercise followed by smoking, isolated exercise and isolated smoking) interventions. At rest, there was no significant alteration in mucociliary clearance in smokers and nonsmokers.
Music influence on anxiety, blood pressure, heart and respiratory rate in chronic renal failure patients on hemodialysis
Music influence on anxiety and parameters vital chronic renal patients
Application of a music therapy session , with 30 minutes for the experimental group (30 patients) and the same term rest period (30 minutes) for the control group (30 patients) . Before and after these interventions will be an assessment of the level of anxiety state of each patient, respecting the individuality of each and analyzing whether there was a reduction of variable or not, after the proposed interventions .
Patients who perform dialysis therapy; over the age of 18; Literate patients;with scores on the Glasgow scale 15 and who had preserved hearing acuity.
Be used anxiolytics in the period up to 24 hours prior to application of music.
Reducing anxiety and vital parameters in hemodialysis patients before and after a musical intervention being used to assess the state of anxiety in these patients Idate scale and values ??of the Brazilian Society of Hypertension, to reference levels of anxiety and vital parameters before and after the interventions. The reduction in anxiety levels and vital parameters will be checked before and after the music intervention from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention.
Increased quality of life for dialysis treatment in patients with a decrease anxiety during dialysis , as well as the reduction of the vital parameters , after a musical intervention 30 minutes into an experimental group and a same duration period of rest, in the control group . Featuring patients that clinical response group and statistically more significant compared to the control group.  
evaluation of 2% chlorexidine in root canal treatment in primary teeth
Evaluation of chlorhexidine 2% in pulp therapy for primary teeth with pulp necrosis
The control group will be held pulpectomy in 15 primary teeth using standard irrigation of 1% sodium hypochlorite and delay healing and filling with calcium hydroxide in propylene glycol.
Group test: will be held pulpectomy in 15 primary teeth using irrigation with clorexina 2% and dressing delay and obturaçãoc with calcium hydroxide associated with 2% chlorhexidine.
Children 5 to 10 years who have at least one primary molar with pulp necrosis and indication pulpectomy.
indication for extraction during the endodontic procedure; impossibility of collecting the microbiological root canal.
The outcome is evaluated the clinical success of the treatment. Success will be determined by evaluating the number of teeth with regression of signs and symptoms of pulp necrosis during the monitoring period. Signs and symptoms of necrotic pulp will be analyzed: spontaneous pain, swelling, fistula,  mobility not compatible in root resorption stage and bone thinning observed by radiographic examination.
The outcome will be analyzed microbial reduction. It will be determined that the number of teeth have no microbial contamination after treatment.
5-fluorouracil 5% compared to vitamin b3 in the treatment of precancerous skin changes
5- fluorouracil 5% intermittent versus nicotinamide at the treatment cancerization skin field: a clinical trial
experimental group: 18 patients with three to ten actinic keratoses by forearm will be evaluated clinically (keratoses count actinic and aging assessment of the forearms), biopsied, and receive topical 5-fluorouracil 5% (on a forearm, at bedtime, 3x a week), sunscreen (daytime on both forearms) and oral nicotinamide (500mg, 2x daily) for 120 days.
control group: 18 patients will receive the same topical treatment associated with placebo (tablet, orally, 2x daily), for 120 days.
Age above 18 years of both sexes; provide at least three and no more than ten clinically compatible with actinic keratosis lesions on each forearm bilaterally.
Selected treatment area that has atypical clinical appearance or other extensive dermatoses forearms; current and previous clinical diagnosis or evidence of any medical condition that expose the patient to increased risk, interfere with the safety or efficacy of the proposed treatment; present hypersensitivity or allergy to any of the substances under study; use of topical or systemic immunosuppressive substance, oral retinoid, and other local treatments (eg corticosteroids, anti-inflammatories, retinoids); immunocompromised; pregnancy suspected or confirmed; women of childbearing potential not using contraception; women in breastfeeding; coagulation disorders.
Reduction or disappearance of actinic keratoses. Evaluation will be done by counting the number of actinic keratoses, immunohistochemistry, and histology of skin biopsies. As evaluation parameters will be used index tables for counting actinic keratoses, and description of histologic atypia and expression of p53 and Ki67 by pathologist.
Adverse effects related to the proposed treatment, appearance of skin tumors non-melanoma and tolerability. The evaluation will be questionmento by the researcher to the patient for adverse effects and tolerabiliade, and clinical evaluation for detection of new tumors by physical examination.
Evaluation of adults that gnash their teeth before and after using appliance
Evaluation of the effect of occlusal splint use on the bite force, quality of sleep and salivary cortisol levels in subjects with sleep bruxism
The study will comprise 45 adults aged between 20 and 40 years, of both genders, students or employees of the University Community of the Region of Chapecó (Unochapecó) , Brazil , which will compose two groups : case group = 30 subjects diagnosed with sleep bruxism and control group = 15 subjects. 
Clinical examination will be performed by a single trained examiner (JVR) with appropriate lighting for the diagnosis of dental wear facets, using: clinical mirror, mouth retractors, gauze, explorer, periodontal probe, air and personal protective equipment, after controlling for biofilm; the conditions of the lips, gums, tongue, palate, buccal mucosa, labial and lingual brakes and present and absent teeth will be assessed.
Adults; age ranging from 20 to 40 years; Caucasians; students or employees of the Universidade Comunitária da Região de Chapecó (Chapecó, Brazil).
Systemic disturbances which could compromise the evaluation of the stomatognathic system; neurological disorders; epilepsy; cerebral palsy; presence of systemic diseases or medication use that could interfere with muscle or salivary activity directly or indirectly; hypertension; cancer; rheumatoid arthritis; diabetes; dyslipidemia; xerostomia; use of antihistamine; use of benzodiazepines; use of antidepressants; use of anxiolytics; use of syrups; use of anti-inflammatory; use of corticoids; use of homeopathy; inappropriate behavior and/or refusal to cooperate in dental procedures and evaluation of the proposed variables.
Alterations on cortisol secretion after two months using occlusal splints, which will be quantifyed in saliva and analysed using inferential statistics with before and after-treatment results.
Remission of signs and symptoms of TMD after two months using occlusal splints, verified by a validated protocol (RDC-TMD) and inferential analysis comparing before and after results.
Duration of analgesia of the perineum with ice packs after childbirth 
Duration of the analgesic effect of cryotherapy on perineal pain after childbirth: clinical trial 
Single application of ice pack in the perineal region for 20 minutes in 50 women (only group) with perineal pain greater than or equal to 3 in the numerical pain scale (0 to 10 points, with 0 = no pain and 10 = maximum pain), between 6 and 24 normal postpartum. We controlled for the perineal temperatures, the ice pack, the environment and the armpit. The ambient temperature was measured using a thermometer brand Incoterm® model TA 60.02 before the intervention. The perineal and ice pack temperatures were measured before and immediately after the intervention, using a digital thermometer MINIPA® model MT 405 dual channel, composed of an immersion thermocouple (MKT 13), placed on ice pack, and a thermocouple surface (MTK 01), placed close to the root of the left thigh postpartum. Pain was evaluated at three different moments: 1) before application of cryotherapy; 2) immediately after cryotherapy 3) 2 hours after cryotherapy.The pain interference with activities sitting, walking, urination, defecation, sleeping, breastfeeding and care of the newborn were questioned before after applying the ice pack.
equal to or greater than 18 years old; 
at least one vaginal delivery prior to the current; 
Receiving analgesic or anti-inflammatory until 120 min after the use of cryotherapy.
The intensity of the perineal pain showed significant reduction after the application of ice pack and kept for 2 hours, indicating the remaining analgesic effect during this period.
The average temperature of the perineum immediately after the use of cryotherapy was expected within the established parameters, suggesting that the ice pack was effective for cooling the perineal region. Regarding the interference of perineal pain in carrying out daily activities, it was observed that most mothers reported discomfort to sit, walk, urinate and sleep. It was not perceived pain interference with breastfeeding and baby care activities.
Study of the effect of inspiratory muscle training on endothelial function, autonomic control, exercise capacity of life in patients with pulmonary hypertension. 
Study of the effect of inspiratory muscle training on endothelial function, autonomic control, exercise capacity of life in patients with pulmonary hypertension. 
Inspiratory muscle training with 50% or 2% of maximal inspiratory muscle strength in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. The training will be performed seven days a week, two series of thirty respirations until maximal inspiratory capacity and expiratory reserve volume with Powerbreathe device.
Group training: 16 patients will perform inspiratory muscle training for 8 weeks with load of 50% of maximal inspiratory muscle strength.
Target sample:32 patients. Patients with pulmonary hypertension confirmed by right heart catheterization; the patient must be over 18 years; patients belonging to group I of pulmonary hypertension; patient in  functional class II or III of world health organization; patients with specific drug treatment for pulmonary hypertension stable for at least three months; patients willing to complete the training; patients with inspiratory muscle strength less than 70% predicted.
Patients using oxygen; patients with significant musculoskeletal disorders, intermittent pain; cognitive or neurological deterioration; patients with psychiatric-psychological disorders that may interfere in the understanding of the protocol; patients with a history of moderate or severe chronic lung disease; patients with hemodynamic instability; unstable angina or uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmia; patients who were hospitalized in the last three months; patients who participated in supervised exercise programs in the past three months; patients with inspiratory muscle strength more than 70% predicted.
Improvement in exercise endurance capacity. It is assessed by the endurance constant test by cycle ergometer.  The result will be above 270 seconds of the baseline time of the exercise tolerance with same load.
Improvement in endothelial function measured by brachial artery ultrasound with results proving an increase of at least 8% of the vessel elasticity.
Effects of supplementation of some nutrients, in elderly, on the inflammation, the muscle, the bone and the body fat
Effects of nutritional supplementation on intestine permeability, systemic inflammation and body composition consequences in elderly
The experiment, lasting six months, is composed by three experimental groups, with 25 elderlies each. They receive different nutritional supplements, and the intake is made at two moments, morning and night. These two doses are received by them in non-identified opaque envelops; these envelops were organized by the industry. The constituted groups are: Group SIM- synbiotic substance, composed by Fructooligosaccharide 6 g, Lactobacillus paracasei 109 a 108 UFC, Lactobacillus rhamnosus 109 a 108 UFC, Lactobacillus acidophilus 109 a 108 UFC e Bifidobacterium lactis 109 a 108 UFC/day. Group GLU- amino acid glutamine, de 6g/day. The Control Group (Group PLA), have 6g of maltodextrin/day.
Elderly above 60 and below 90 years old; both genders; independent and non-institutionalized; they have to fill at least one of the following criteria of frailty: non-intentional body weight loss in the last six months; exhaustion evaluated by a geriatric depression scale; grip strength below the expected values; gait speed below the expected values; reduced energy expenditure.
Presence of acute or chronic intestinal inflammatory disease; current use of antibiotics; current use of supplements of protein, hormones or other substances driven to enhance muscle mass; current use of synbiotic, probiotic or prebiotic substances; having caner or any inflammatory disease in the last six months.
The expected outcome (IL-10/IL-6 ratio) was not found in this clinical trial, because the mean comparision between groups did not show statistical significance. In more details, we analyzed the outcome using repeated measures ANOVA. The IL-10/IL-6 ratio (both measures in ng/dL) the observed values in group SIM (supplemented with synbiotics) were 2,3±0,3 (initial values) and 2,8±0,6 (final values). The placebo group (PLA), the values were 4.0±0.8 (initial values) and 2,4±0,3 (final values). The p-value, taking into account the groups, was 0.17; taking into account the time, the p-value was 0.68; the interaction time x group resulted in a p-value of 0.19. 
Secondary outcomes were not investigated
DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) for pregnant women with diabetes and the effects of diet on the health of mother and son
DASH diet (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) Effect on Perinatal Outcome
Pregnant Women with Diabetes Mellitus
The study will be defined two study groups:
Group 1 (G1) - control group of 20 pregnant women who receive guidance from the traditional diet routinely adopted in the studied maternity. Pregnant women are advised to follow this diet for a minimum of eight weeks.
Pregnant adults, diagnosis of diabetes mellitus ( types 1 and 2 ) of singleton pregnancy; non-smokers and non-users of alcohol. 
Pregnant women with chronic comorbidities such as hypertension; kidney or liver disease 
For the diagnosis of syndromes Hypertensive Pregnancy, will be investigated - gestational hypertension when blood pressure is greater than or equal to 140/90 mmHg without proteinuria, which occurs after the 20th week of gestation; preeclampsia - Gradual development of hypertension and proteinuria -excreção of 0.3 g or more protein in urine 24 hours; eclampsia - presence of seizures in women with hypertensive frame, not caused by epilepsy or other seizure disorder
Inadequacy of gestational weight gain entirely when above or below recommended for pre-pregnancy body mass index. It will be assessed the total weight gain during pregnancy, calculated as the difference between the pre-birth weight and pre-pregnancy weight. Inadequate dietary intake of energy, macronutrients and micronutrients - will be compared to the consumption before the intervention and after the intervention and each trimester of pregnancy and compared with the intake recommendations for pregnant women. Consumption will be ranked below the recommended level or above recommendation. Gestational anemia will be determined by the concentration of hemoglobin and when it is less than 11g / dL is considered anemia. Lack of vitamin A will be assessed by the indicator gestational night blindness, diagnosed with the implementation of standardized interview during pregnancy. The other co-morbidities during pregnancy, childbirth or the postpartum period, such as urinary tract infection, premature rupture of membranes, oligohydramnios or polyhydramnios will be identified in medical records in order. The loss of glycemic control will be investigated in all quarters, according to maternal fasting glucose and postprandial glucose (1 hour). The loss of glycemic control will be identified when the fasting blood glucose is greater than or equal to 95mg / dL and postprandial 2 hours after the start of the meal is greater than or equal to 140mg / dL. The lipid profile and oxidative stress markers will be evaluated every 8 weeks after the start of the intervention (baseline). To evaluate the lipid profile will be analyzed total cholesterol parameters, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides, LDL cholesterol and VLDL. The assessed oxidative stress markers will be - Total glutathione, total antioxidant capacity (TAC), plasma nitrite, MDA-TBARS (malondialdehyde). The macrosomia will be identified by the higher birth weight or equal to 4000g. Premature birth is considered when delivery occurs before the 37th. week of pregnancy. Neonatal complications, congenital malformations and cesarean delivery will be identified in medical records. 
Use of games in the treatment of postural deviations of schoolchildren aged 10 to 15 years
Game therapy in the treatment of postural deviations of schoolchildren aged 10 to 15 years
The research will consist of three groups: game therapy group (GG), positive control group (GCP) and control group (CG). The children from the GG and GCP will undergo 10 sessions of care, with an average of 30 minutes per session, and frequency of twice a week. The CG will not receive the intervention, and will be submitted for re-evaluation after a period equivalent to the end of the 10th session, counted from the date of valuation inicial. For the GG will be used the Nintendo® Wii videogame brand, and selected set of exercises Wii Fit Plus: yoga and strength training. The GCP will perform the same GG exercises. However, these will be carried out on the ground, without the visual feedback provided by the game.
Children and adolescents with postural desviations; aged 10 and 15. The sample size will be 24 participants.
People with physical or mental disabilities; orthopedic injury , trauma or rheumatic ; having undergone surgery on the spine.
Improved postural alignment evaluated by computerized photogrammetry in school with postural changes. 
Verification of increased muscle flexibility of the posterior chain and mobility of the lumbar spine, measured by bank Wells and Schober test, respectively.
Effect of interventions on the quality of sleep and stress in people with Diabetes 
Effect of non-pharmacological interventions on the quality of sleep and stress
emotional in people with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
The state intervention group received regarding treatment guidelines for hygiene measures of sleep and exposure to light. These measures are:
* The bedroom should be quiet, dark and comfortable temperature;
People with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in clinical follow-up in that service; aged greater than 18 years; both sexes; who have active telephone contact; not forming any pharmacological / non-pharmacological treatment for improving sleep quality or that interferes it.
People that are experiencing cognitive impairment , according to an evaluation of the Mini -Mental State Examination ( MMSE), according to the educational tracks; People who submit total score on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI less than or equal to 5, defining them as 
Improvement of sleep quality in bad sleepers period of three months , by applying PSQI instrument , as a variation of score in pre and post-intervention measurements.
Improved emotional stress level in the period of three months by applying the DDS instrument, at the beginning and end of the study.
Effects of exercise in the treatment of depression, dementia and parkinson.
Effectiveness of exercise in the treatment of major depression, Alzheimer
It will be recruited at least 60 patients in each clinical condition (DM, DA and PD), considering the loss of follow-up of 20% (12 patients). Thus, sample reach the N 20 subjects for each type of intervention (physical training and control) and a total of 180 patients during the five years of research (60 DM, 60 AD, 60 PD). The sample size was based on the results of a pilot unpublished study conducted in our laboratory.The control group (C) will have clinical follow-up, but will not perform any physical training. The training group (TG) will attend the Institute of Neurology Deolindo Couto twice a week to conduct a training routine. The routine consists of performing aerobic training (AT) and force (TF) in a 60-minute service session, 30 minutes for each training method. The TF will be done at an intensity of 70% of one repetition maximum (RM). large groups will be used (extensors and knee flexors, dorsal and pectoral), three sets of 8 to 12 repetitions for each muscle group. The TA will be carried out at an intensity of 70% of maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) or 80% of maximum heart rate (MHR) estimated production, established by the formula 220 - age. equipment will be used as a treadmill for walking or stationary bike. The training will be led by physical education teachers and physiotherapists and will be monitored by the rate monitors Polar ® brand. the blood pressure of the subjects will be measured before, during and after each training session.
Seniors over 60 years. both sexes. diagnosed with major depression. Alzheimer
Cerebrovascular infarction history. use of treatments such as electroconvulsive therapy. psychotherapy, illiterate and functional class III and IV according to the criteria of the New York Heart Association.
Reduction of the depressive symptoms for depression group after 3 months; the Geriatric Depression Scale; via response parameters, namely 50% reduction of symptoms after 3 months of the intervention. For the Alzheimer group, the reduction of overall cognitive state performance after 3 months of operation; the Mini-Mental State Examination; it is expected that the reduction of the scores is less than 3 points in the exercise group, ie higher in the control group compared to the exercise group. For Parkinson's group, improved UPDRS score after 3 months. 
After 3 months of intervention is expected to improve the functional capacity assessed by the Berg Balance Scale, the test to evaluate the dual task, the test of strength with the use of a dynamometer, by kinematic gait analysis and the battery tests functional Senior Fitness Test. Improvement of electrophysiological activity assessed by heart rate variability and the electroencephalogram; expected increase in HRV and increased alpha power. Improved hormonal response by measuring cortisol and DHEA.
Role of neuromotor training nn gait pattern and mobility of ankles in elderly
Role of neuromotor training nn gait pattern and mobility of ankles in elderly
The neuromotor training group with eleven aged sedentary receiving neuromotor training for 12 weeks with a frequency os 2 weekly meetings. The control group: 15 elderly regularly physically active at a frequency of 2 times per week.Data collection included the following research instruments: anamnesis, gait pattern assessment and mobility ankles. The information collected in the history told with questions to obtain demographic data, level of education, medicine, and history of falls in the last year.For gait analysis, we used the Cerny protocol in which the following variables are evaluated: total running time, linear speed of the march, the stride length and stride length. The Cerny protocol is to analyze the motion in the sagittal plane on a runway measuring 16 meters where six core meters are validated for use as benchmarks between groups.The mobility of ankles will be assessed by actively goniometer for the movement of plantar flexion and dorsiflexion.The assessment of gait and ankle mobility will take place in the two groups before the intervention group will receive training neuromotor and soon after the application of neuromotor training.Each intervention of neuromotor training will last 45 minutes with the following phases: Heating lasting five minutes containing metabolic exercises of upper and lower limbs, neuromotor training lasting 35 minutes and cool down with 5 minutes duration with stretching and breathing exercises for relaxation.
gender female,65 to 75 years old,practicing of regular physical activity,sedentary
physical disability;auxiliary device of march;neurological disorders with sequels;severe visual impairment
The values of velocity gait remained close to the values found in the initial evaluation.
The range of motion values remained decreased in both groups.
Effects of Different Trainings to Strengthening Pelvic Floor Muscles
Effects of Different Training Protocolos in Function and Electrical Activity of the Pelvic Floor Muscles
The volunteers will be randomly assigned by a computer-generated list into two groups: group 1 (G1), n=15, which will carry out the protocol to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles number 1 and group 2 (G2), n=15, which perform protocol number 2.
The subjects of the two groups will do the protocol for 8 weeks. Initially, the volunteers will carry out an individual session supervised by physiotherapist where they will receive instruction on the importance of pelvic floor exercises and how to perform them properly. The contraction will be verified by adequate vaginal palpation.
Age between 18-30 years. Active sex life, defined as reporting any sexual intercourse in the last three months. Active and non-athletes, physical activity for more than 150 minutes per week. Normal body mass index (BMI) (between 18.5 and 24.9 kg/m2.
Current pregnancy or prior. Reporting of urinary leakage last week. Presence of pelvic organ prolapse. Presence of constipation, defined as weekly evacuation less than three times. Presence of pelvic pain. History of pelvic surgery. Amenorrhea.
Difference of the electrical activity of the pelvic floor muscles, assessed by electromyography, during maximal voluntary contraction before and after the strengthening protocol.
Difference  of the pelvic floor muscles function, ranked by Modified Oxford Scale, during maximal voluntary contraction before and after the strengthening protocol.
Gastrointestinal and lung cancer, effects of the fish oil intake on nutritional status, quality of life and imunnometabolic outcomes
Gastrointestinal and lung cancer, effects of the fish oil intake on nutritional status, quality of life and imunnometabolic outcomes
Intervention: 3.6 g/day of the encapsulated fish oil (2 capsules/day) providing 1.55 g/d of the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (EPA and DHA) during 9 weeks. Number of subjects expected: 20
Placebo: 3.2 g/day of the olive oil (2 capsules/day) without n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. umber of subjects expected: 20
Individuals with 19 years or older, histopathologic diagnosis of gastric cancer, or colorectal or anal canal or non-small cell lung cancer, ability to start chemotherapy in co-participant institution (CEPON).
Prior chemotherapy, inability to
oral intake, diagnosis of infectious or inflammatory disease, be allergic to fish and / or derivatives, be pregnant, treatment with statins, ??use of fish oil and/or another supplement containing omega-3 or other polyunsaturated fatty acid in the six months
Increased activity of antioxidant enzymes (catalase, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase) verified through spetophotometric assays in erythrocytes before supplementation and after nine weeks of supplementation with fish oil and comparing with activity of enzymes in control group.
Lower Disease progression 6 months and one year after supplementation with fish oil. Assessed by tumor markers (CEA e CA-19), disease staging and number of deaths 6 months and one year after  fish oil suplementation compared to control group.
Use of horses on improvement functional capacity of elderly
Hippotherapy on functional capacity of elderly
38 participants will be divided into two groups namely experimental group: 12 participants will undergo hippotherapy; control group: 16 participants did not receive treatment. The intervention period is 6 months
Ability to understand simple commands; Perform activities of daily living independently; 
Mount the horse independently (with help of the platform mount)
Body weight greater than 90 kg, 
The animal Phobia
Improved functional capacity of elderly people, as regards the balance, agility and functional strength of the lower limbs (LL). The measures used are: Berg balance scale; test timed up and walk, chair stand test in 30s. Expected to increase scores on Berg; reduce the execution time of the test timed up and walk; increase the number of times that the old seats and seat in 30 seconds. 
not applicable
Self-care and adherence: the impact of an educational program for patients with heart failure
Self-care and adherence: the impact of an educational program for patients with heart failure
Patients eligible and agreed to participate in the study were assigned to receive educational interventions through group guidance with videos, games, presentations and others (intervention group; n = 50) or routine nursing consultation guidelines (control group; n = 50). In order to assess the effect on self-care and adherence. The intervention group had the opportunity of participation of eight steering group meetings lasting one hour in 15-day intervals for 4 months. The study included those who participated in at least three meetings. Both intervention and control groups also participated in two nursing visits for evaluation. The professionals responsible for assessing the participants were blinded to the intervention and control groups.
Medical diagnosis of Heart failure independent of etiology, with normal ejection fraction or diminished, age higher or equal 18 years and functional classes I-III NYHA (New York Heart Association)
Event acute myocardial infarction three months before insertion in the research; revascularization surgery in the previous month or the same need; patients with neurological sequelae cognitive, not reside in the cities of Niterói, São Gonçalo or Rio de Janeiro and has no phone contact direct.
Adherence assessed by Questionário de Adesão para pacientes com IC (Bocchi et al, 2008); assessed through self-care and Self-care of Heart Failure Index version 6.2 translated into Portuguese, before and after the intervention.
Rating of sociodemographic characteristics (sex, age, race, income, smoking and drinking) in relation to the scores of self-care and adherence. The differences between the mean scores according to sociodemographic characteristics were tested using the T-Student.
Effects of diagnostic errors on variability of assessment and intervention with acupuncture
Effects of diagnostic errors on Interrater Reliability for Pattern differentiation and Acupoints prescription
This is an cross-sectional study without any intervention. This is an observational study to investigate the effects of diagnostic errors in inter-rater reliability for pattern differentiation and acupuncture prescription. Eight raters (adults, either gender) will be asked to answer a 90-item questionnaire with simulated human patients with cardiovascular, respiratory, musculoskeletal and nervous systems
Adults; either gender; bachelor degree in any health-related course recognized by the National Ministry of Education, including biomedicine, nursing, physical therapy, speech therapy, physician, nutrition, dentistry, psychology, and occupational therapy; postgraduate training in acupuncture; signature of the informed consent form after reading about the objectives, potential risks and benefits for participating in this research.
Professionals with postgraduate training not registered at the respective professional council; clinical practice less than one year.
Higher diagnostic performance of specialists for cases simulated with correct diagnosis as assessed by accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values with at least 10% different from the cases simulated with misdiagnosis.
Positive association between controlling variables (age, clinical practice period) and the diagnostic accuracy as assessed with the Spearman's correlation coefficient of at least 0.41.
Prophylactic antibiotic therapy indicated in reduction mammoplasty: clarifying its role in the prevention of surgical wound infection
Effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis in a single dose in the infection prevention on reduction mammoplasty surgery
Cephalothin 2g intravenous administration in single dose 30 minutes before mammaplasty surgery in a experimental group of 75 patients and other  75 patients control group without the use of antibiotic
woman, age from 18 to 70 years old, approved by the hospital medical joint comission; body mass index between 25 to 30

Using steroids ; have used antibiotics in the last 7 days prior to the surgery

Reduction of surgical site infection rates in the group with antibiotic prophylaxis when compared to antibiotic-free control group after follow-up for 35 days after surgery, observing the surgical wound behavior weekly and throught statistical evaluation of the data, with absolute and relative frequencies for categoric variables (surgical site infection, prophylactic antibiotic, ptosis, hypertrophy) and mean, standard deviation and median for numeric variables (weight resected, surgery time)with an error margin of 5% to define its statistical significance
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Green tea 
Effect of green tea extract on biomarkers of renal function in patients with Diabetic Nephropathy
Experimental group : 50 patients with diabetic nephropathy, aged 20 and 59 years and albuminuria values between 30 - 300mg or proteinuria between 150-500 mg which will be supplemented with two capsules containing 1000 mg of Camellia standardized dry extract sinensis ( green tea ), 50 % of polyphenols per day for 6 months. Control group: 50 diabetic patients with normal renal function, which receive two composite cellulose placebo capsules daily for 6 months. Patients will be evaluated every six months to evaluate the parameters studied .
Diabetes mellitus diagnosis for at least five years; be aged between 20 and 59anos ;
present albuminuria values between 30 - 300 mg or proteinuria between 150 - 500mg.
Urinary tract infection; cardiac decompensation; hyperthyroidism ; fever for at least three days; liver disease ; menopausal women and hormone treatment ; pregnant and lactating women .
Prevention or delay of progression of renal disease in patients with diabetic nephropathy by lowering at least 5% of albuminuria and proteinuria values found by the isolated sample nephropathy examination conducted before, during and after intervention.
Improvement in markers of glycemic control through laboratory evaluation of fasting blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin and proven by the reduction of at least 5 % of the values obtained from tests performed before, during and after the intervention.
Physiotherapy effects on quality of life of patients with swelling of the legs living in elephantiasis transmission area
Effects of complex physical therapy and its influence on functional independence and
quality of life of lymphedema sufferers in lower members residing in
Intervention Group: composed of seventeen (17) participants distributed in randomized order, they will receive the treatment of lymphedema through complex physical therapy, consisting of the association of techniques: Manual lymphatic drainage (gentle massage of the lower limb with lymphedema for 30 minutes following the technique Foldi); Kinesiotherapy, consisting of active movement exercises of flexion and ankle extension, resisted by an elastic band (size 150 cm x 14cm - orange - strong resistance), performing three sets of 10 reps on the leg affected by the lymphedema with 30 interval seconds between sets; Compressive bandaging the leg with lymphedema, to a height below the knee, using chambray fabric bandages, within six (6) layers. Before filleting the skin receive common moisturizer application to avoid the heat and dryness. After application of the moisturizer, skin is covered with a tubular mesh and a foam layer of 5 mm thick to protect the skin tissue lesions will be pressed through the tracks. If the patient has folds in the skin with lymphedema, will apply ointment to prevent diaper rash in these places to avoid infections and injuries. The first bandage layer will be held with inelastic bandage (width 08cm and 10 cm, composed of 61% cotton, 39% polyamide and 22 wires \ cm²) of low elasticity. This bandage aimed perform bandaging format, not being considered compression. The following layers will be composed of 100% cotton fabric (type chambray) and will have width of 10 cm and a length of two meters. Bandage layers are overlapped by 75% each track in one direction (clockwise, interspersed with counter-clockwise). This type of overlay follows the law of Laplace, to create a pressure column and to favor the drainage of lymphedema in the centripetal direction.
The technique will be applied totaling ten (10) weeks, often twice a week, lasting 50 minutes each session, held in the office of the local research. First blood pressure will be measured with sphygmomanometer, calibrated and stethoscope. If the patient has hypertension peak ie BP
Residents in an endemic area of filariasis; of both sexes; age from 18 to 75 years old; who had lymphedema located in the leg, below the knee, unilaterally or bilaterally, ranked from stage II to stage V, according to Dreyer.
Will be excluded from the study patients with lymphedema above the knee (thigh), patients who are doing another treatment to reduce lymphedema, except patients on use of topical antifungal drugs and prophylactic antibiotics for secondary infections; have performed physical therapy for lymphedema in the three months prior to inclusion in the study; introduce infectious processes active and untreated during the project; present thrombophlebitis; have contraindications for manual lymphatic drainage (active neoplasms at the site of drainage, cellulitis, deep vein thrombosis in the acute phase, cardiac insufficiencies, liver and kidney desconpensada and uncontrolled hypertension); have contraindications for compressive bandaging (significant artery diseases in the lower limbs and neoplastic degeneration of lymphedema); present conditions that may compromise the sensitivity and also the functioning of the muscular system.
Primary outcome found:  At the end of the study it was observed to reduce the volume of lymphedema in the intervention group in indirect measurement at all points of the circumference , obtaining the following reduction values ??(in centimeters) : zero : 0.72 ; Point 1 : 5.90 ; section 2 : 5.60; Section 3 : 5.90 ; Point 4 : 3.05 ; Section 5 : 0.70.  Control group: the increase of lymphedema was found (and this outcome was not expected , but it was found): zero point : 0.98 ; Point 1 : 0.27; section 2 : 0.58; Section 3 : 0.52; Point 4 : 0.79; Section 5 : 0.30 .  The volumes were no significant intra-group reduction, only between groups , yielding the following values ??: Group Intervention : 7.21% reduced volume and control group: 6.89% increased (this was not expected, but was found).
Found secondary outcomes: Quality of life: There was an improvement in the quality of life values in the physical (within and between groups) and environment (intra group). Obtaining values: improvement of 0.36 in the physical domain score of 0.38 and the environment. And improves inter group in the physical domain of 0.64. No significant improvement in the rest of fields (psychological and social).  Mobility and functionality of the lower limbs: it was no improvement in this outcome.  Body weight: weight reduction was observed in the intervention group and 2.81% weight gain in the control group of 2.06%. The change in body weight was significant when comparing inter and intra group control group. And no significant intra group intervention.
Physical exercise for hemodialysis patients
Physical exercise for hemodialysis patients: randomized trial
30 patients with chronic kidney disease will be allocated randomly into two groups: 15 in the control group and 15 in the intervention group. Participants of this study underwent a week of familiarization (three workouts) before starting the 12-week training protocol. During the week of familiarizing the participants adjusted the positioning of the bed and the mechanical cycle ergometer portable Altmayer (BM 3600, São Paulo, Brazil) in order to perform the activity comfortably. Still, participants were instructed individually to report perceived exertion provided by the Borg Scale 16. The next week the participants began the 12-week RT program three times a week on nonconsecutive days, performed in cycle ergometer. The trainings were conducted in the first two hours of HD, lasting 40 minutes, consisting of three steps: 1) heating (3 min) at low intensity (Borg 2-3 = 2) conditioning (30min) at moderate intensity (Borg = 6 and 7) and; 3) Cooling (3 min), low intensity (Borg = 2-3). Blood pressure was monitored at rest and after cooling with the use of sphygmomanometer (Tycos, DS44, Brazil). Heart rate and oxygen saturation were constantly monitored by cardiofrequencimentro (Polar RS800CX, Brazil) and portable oximeter (pulse oximeter TuffsatTM, São Paulo, Brazil).They are compared in pre and post values of IL-1beta interleukins, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-8 and TNF-alpha, addition of total cholesterol and fractions (HDL, LDL and triglycerides) and glycated hemoglobin.
Aged 18 to 65, hemodialysis for a minimum period of three months; not use anti-inflammatory; to be able to physical exercise and sedentary for a period longer than or equal to 3 months.
The presence of intense physical fatigue; chest pain; dizziness; pallor; syncope; tachycardia; hypotension; lower limb fatigue; weight gain interdialytic greater than 5 kilograms; difficult vascular access or any significant complaints of pain.
Reduced amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-8 and IL-12 and increased anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, comparing the pre- and after 12 weeks of intervention in the group to perform aerobic training, this will be checked by analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures to analyze the effects of time and treatment interaction, statistical significance was set at p< = 5% for all analyzes.
Reduction in the values of total cholesterol HDL, LDL and triglycerides and reduction in glycated hemoglobin values by comparing pre and post 12 weeks of intervention the group perform aerobic training, this will be checked by analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures to analyze the effects of time, treatment and interaction, statistical significance was set at p< = 5% for all analyzes.
Evaluation cost of light apparatus for early detection of oral cancer in Goiás
Technology assessment in the implementation of a screening and matrix model of oral cancer in Goias state: study of cost-effectiveness of visual inspection and inspections with florescence
Patients will undergo the inspection of the oral cavity using wooden spatula and gauze, under white light and then under violet light produced by the autofluorescence device. The desired number of participants is 100 individuals.
Individuals of both genders; smokers who use cigarretes since 1 month ago at least; consuming alcoholic drinks at least once per week; with sun exposure over 2 hours per day; history of sexually transmitted disease; over 40 years old
Individuals who do not accept signing the informed consent, or if they fail any of the conditions described in the inclusion criteria, or do not allow the assessment of the oral cavity under white light or under the violet light
Potentially malignant or malignant lesion found by inspection aided by equipment using autofluorescence
Presence of lesions in the oral mucosa, with features consistent with oral cancer at the beginning and end of the study, based on the visual evaluation
Evaluation of effects of differents montages of non invasive brain eletrical stimulation in funcionality of children with cerebral palsy of type spastic hemiparesis
Effects of differents montages of tDCS in functionality of children with Cerebral Palsy of type Spastic Hemiparesis: clinical trial randomized, placebo-controlled and double blind
Group 1: anodal tDCS on motor cortex primary and cathode in the contralateral supraorbital region associated to gait training on a treadmill; Group 2: placebo tDCS anode  on the primary motor cortex and cathode in the contralateral supraorbital region associated to gait training on a treadmill; Group3: anodal tDCS on the primary motor cortex of the injured hemisphere and cathodic stimulation in the contralateral primary motor cortex associated with gait training on a treadmill. Participants will be assessed at three points in time (before, immediately after and one month after the proposed training).

The tdcs will be perform in 30 children, with 10 children per group. This stimulation will be perform during 2 weeks consecutively, 10 sessions during 20 minutes, using 1mA of current stimulation.
Inclusion criteria will be thirty children who: a) have the diagnosis of CP spastic hemiparesis; functionally classified as levels I and II by GMFCS (Palisano et al, 1997;. Hiratuka et al, 2010).; have independent walking at least 12 months; the age group of six and ten years of life; have degrees of understanding and consistent collaboration with the completion of the proposed activities; The parents agree with their participation in the study by signing the Informed Consent
Children who will be excluded have undergone surgical procedures or neurolytic blocks in the last 12 months before the start of the training sessions; presenting structured orthopedic deformities with surgical indications; have epilepsy; having metal implant in the brain or hearing aids.
We believe that the group with de bilateral montage has better results when compared with unilateral montage. Perform a comparative analysis between the effects of different montages of transcranial direct current stimulation associated with gait training on the treadmill on functional mobility, gait pattern (spatiotemporal, kinematic and kinetic gait parameters), static equilibrium and functional performance in children with spastic hemiparetic cerebral palsy, after 10 sessions of treadmill training simultaneously the use of tDCS (2 weeks consecutively - 5 sessions per week). The evaluations will be performed before de intervention, after and one month after the end of the sessions of intervention  The sample size calculation was performed using the statistical software STATA 11, based on the research Grecco et al. (2013) "A comparison of treadmill training and overground walking in ambulant children with cerebral palsy: randomized controlled clinical trial." For Calculated based gait speed. Gait velocity was considered to represent an important clinical outcome and directly related to the intervention. The study Grecco et al. was selected by engaging a similar population to which this project aims to engage (children with CP levels I - III of the GMFCS). Based on the average of the experimental group of 1.0 m / s, with standard deviation of 0,22m / s of 0,71m / s control group, with standard deviation of 0.12 M / s, for a bidirectional alpha 0.05 and a power of 80% will be required 8 children per group. The sample is increased by 20% in order to avoid the effects of possible losses ending with a number of 10 children in each group, a total of 30 participants.
Verify proper montage of tDCS performed during gait training on a treadmill, to optimize the function of gait, static balance and functional performance of children with cerebral palsy spastic hemiparesis, after 10 sessions of treadmill training simultaneously the use of tDCS (2 weeks consecutively - 5 sessions per week). The evaluations will be performed before de intervention, after and one month after the end of the sessions of intervention
Use of Postoperative Intravenous Iron in Abdominoplasty After Bariatric Surgery
Use of Postoperative Intravenous Iron in Abdominoplasty After Bariatric Surgery
Twenty eight patients in the study group will receive two applications of 200 mg of iron sulfate intravenously after post-bariatric abdominoplasty, the first application will be in the immediate postoperative period and the second on the first postoperative day.
Twenty eight active Control patients will receive ferrous sulfate supplementation orally postoperatively at a dose of 1 tablet of 100 mg 12/12h for 8 weeks.
Sample size: 56 patients, Women; 18 to 55 years old; previous bariatric surgery; BMI less than 32 kg/m2; Stability of weight loss for at least 6 months
smoking; cholelithiasis demonstrated on ultrasound; uncontrolled systemic diseases; bone marrow diseases; hematological disorders; presence of renal or hepatic insufficiency; acute infection; prior use in the last three months of intravenous iron; hemoglobin level less than 11.5 g/dL; ferritin level less than 11 ng/mL or greater than 100 ng/mL; transferrin saturation index below 20% or exceeding 50%; a level of less than 210 pg/mL vitamin B12; folic acid level of less than 3,3 ng/ml, albumin level less than 3 g/dL; C-reactive protein greater than 5mg/L; mean corpuscular volume less than 80 fL.
Hemoglobin level increase in the eighth week of postoperative abdominoplasty after bariatric surgery, measured by automated hematology counter, from a finding of an increase of 1.5 g/dL compared to control group
Presence of iron deficiency assessed by serum ferritin, Postoperative hemoglobin levels, Fatigue measured in the questionnaire FACT-An, Quality of life measured by SF-36, adverse events, surgical complications
The Impact of supplementation with L-carnitine in patients with heart disease undergoing cardiac surgery
The impact of supplementation with L-carnitine on left ventricular remodeling in patients with ischemic heart failure undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting
Patients with heart failure of ischemic etiology will be divided into two groups: supplemented and placebo group. The Group supplemented receive aqueous oral L-carnitine, providing 50mg/kg daily for 60 days, in addition to standard clinical protocol for IC according to the Guideline for IC (2012)
Adults; lucid, oriented, both genders; greater than or equal to 18 years, less than or equal to 80 years, diagnosed with heart failure of ischemic etiology, NYHA functional class II and III; require coronary artery bypass grafting.
Renal dysfunction, hepatic dysfunction; disabsortive Syndromes; tumors, use of intra-aortic balloon; stroke, dysphagia, dialysis, sepsis, hemodynamic shock.
Increasing the ejection fraction of the left ventricle determined by echocardiography at the end of the study compared to the beginning.
Supplementation with L-carnitine in patients who present Ejection Fraction Left Ventricular lower than 50%, established by echocardiography.
Is it safe to prescribe antibiotics at the commonly administered dose for obese and patients with stomach reduction surgery? Study of available concentration of oral amoxicillin
Is it safe to prescribe antibiotics in tablets dosage form for obese and bariatric patients? Oral bioavailability study of amoxicillin 
Will be selected 40 patients, aged between 18 and 50 years, divided in two groups. The recruitment of the research subjects will be by multimedia, posters and direct contact with gastric surgeons of Maringa and region, for those patients that are indicated to the Roux in Y gastric surgery, attended by SUS and private health plan. It will be asked to the responsible for the safekeeping of patient data (doctors or social worker) to contact the patients that apply the criteria of study inclusion, and invite them to participate of the research. 
Phase I: 20 health and obese patients that are in the waiting list for bariatric surgery of Maringa or Region, that apply the criteria of study inclusion, with designation to Roux in Y gastric surgery.
Health obese patients that are waiting to undergo bariatric surgery;
Health volunteers who have undergone bariatric surgery by the technique Roux in Y gastric band at least 3 months ago;
Intolerance or hypersensitivity to Amoxicillin;
Renal or hepatic faillure;
Statistically significant difference (p <0.05) in the pharmacokinetic parameters between the obese and bariatric group, and the group that received suspension versus tablet, which will be calculated from the concentration curve versus time.
Statistically significant difference (p <0.05) in the pharmacokinetic parameters only between the group that received suspension versus tablet.
Clinical avaliation of patients with intestinal neuronal dysplasia after a long time period
Long term clinical follow up in patients with intestinal neuronal dysplasia 
63 Patients with  Intestinal Neuronal dysplasia type B who had been treated for more than five years. These patients are divided into two groups according to the type of treatment which had undergone (29 patients previosly submitted to surgerical treatment, by colectomies and 34 patients submitted to conservative treatment, have been used  laxatives and enemas). These patients will be called for semi-structured interviews, in which it will be investigated aspects related to intestinal habit and quality of life. They will also be subjected to the collection of blood samples for analysis of circulating microRNAs in plasma, when a comparison of the expression of these markers between patients of these two groups.Patients will undergo these interventions only one time, at the moment this consultation, which will last approximately 40 minutes.
patients who had received histopathological diagnosis of Intestinal Neuronal Dysplasia type B; that have been diagnosed and treated for over 5 years; have agreed to participate in the study; signed informed consent term. 
Refuses to participate in the study; less than 5 years after initiation of treatment.
Differences in defecation pattern of patients in both study groups, measure by the questionnarie  "Bowel Function Score (BF-S)".
Differences in quality of life demonstrated by the PedsQL 4.0 tool in patients in both study groups.
The clinical effect of physical therapy and osteopathy in chronic low back pain patients 
The clinical effectiveness of conventional therapy versus osteopathic manipulative treatment in patients with chronic nonspecific low back pain: A randomized clinical trial 
Group 1: 20 patients will be recruited to conservative treatment and the treatment regimen established for this intervention will be done is: thoracic manipulation, myofascial release techniques (in the paraspinal region, quadratus lumborum and psoas muscle), passive joint mobilization (hip and pelvis joints), neural mobilization (sciatic and femoral nerve) and lumbar stabilization exercises. In group 2, 20 patients will be recruited to osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT). The following protocol was used for OMT treatments included one or a combination of the following: myofascial release, Jones technique, muscle energy, soft tissue, high-velocity–low-amplitude thrusts, and cranial–sacral. The OMT was aimed at somatic dysfunction in the low back or adjacent areas. Patients will be treated for a maximum of 10 sessions, each session lasting about 40 minutes each week. The maximum duration of treatment is 4 months. 
Pacients in the physiotherapy sector at the Gaffrée and Guinle University Hospital (HUGG); which have low back pain for more than three months; which have not undergone physiotherapy treatment in the last three months.
Patients who have a history of abdominal and lumbar surgery; infection; vertebral fracture; ankylosing spondylitis; cauda equine syndrome; cancer; radiculopathy in lumbar levels; lumbar stenosis; rheumatic syndromes and patients who receive some benefit labor.
Level of intensity of pain assessed through the numerical pain scale from the reduction of 50% in pre and post-intervention measurements.
Level of lumbar disability assessed through the Oswestry Disability Index from the reduction of 50% in pre and post-intervention measurements.
Comparison of methods for masticatory function evaluation
Comparison of methodologies applied to masticatory function evaluation
The present study will be develop in two steps. In the first step, 20 subjects presenting complete dentition will be selected. They will be instructed to chew Optocal and Optosil specimens, and capsules containing fucsine granules. Three tests will be carried out for each material (Optosil, Optocal, and capsules) varying the number of chewing cycles (20, 40, and 60 cycles), totaling up nine masticatory tests per volunteer. The sequence of test materials will be  randomazed.
At the second stage, all methods will be performed in 20 subjects wearing mandible conventional complete dentures and 20 subjects wearing mandible implant-sup
Health subjects; both gender; aged from 25 to 70 years; complete natural dentition or total edentulism wearing a conventional complete denture or a implant supported mandibular dentures.
Diagnostic of caries; periodontal disease; facial malformations; severe malocclusion; posterior crossbite; anterior open bite; parafunctional habits; temporomandibular disorder
It is expected that the colorimetric method presents the same results of the sieving fraction method when applied to quantify the masticatory function. In the colorimetric method, the results are expressed by nanometers after the spectrophotometric evaluation and while in the sieving method the results will be obtained as X50 values which corresponds to the opening of a hypothetical sieve, in mm, where about half of the crushed material is capable of crossing. It will then be made an equivalence relationship between the values in nanometers and mm, by percentage. 
It is expected that the colorimetric method presents the same results of the sieving fraction method when applied to quantify the masticatory function when applied to quantify the masticatory function for both complete dentate and totally edentulous subjects wearing prostheses. Results will be evaluated as described in the primary outcome.
Interdisciplinary intervention with motivational approach in adolescents with overweight and obese
Interdisciplinary intervention effectiveness on motivacional approach in lifestyle modification in teenager with overweight and obesity


Control Group (CG): Objective: Developing skills through educational initiatives in health using the pedagogy of transmission. Length: 12 sessions, 3 months. Frequency: Weekly. Sample: 60 adolescents 15-18 years. Procedures: It will be led by a professional in each area: psychology, nursing, nutrition and physiotherapy. The professionals will follow a schedule of lectures addressing cardiovascular risk factors and the prevention thereof, according to their area of ??expertise. Session length: 45 minutes.
Interdisciplinary Intervention Group (IG): Objective: Developing skills through educational health actions that provide the development of autonomy and empowerment for behavioral change, based on interdisciplinary motivational strategies. Length: 12 sessions, 3 months. Frequency: Weekly. Sample: 60 adolescents 15-18 years. Procedures: Group meetings will be held in the presence of a member of the nursing staff, physiotherapy, nutrition and psychology. The first 1 hour and 15 minutes will be addressed health issues related to lifestyle modification (self-care, healthy eating and physical activity) using the fundamentals of the motivational interviewing technique. All themes will focus on the major cardiovascular risk factors considered modifiable. Session duration: 1 hour and 15minutes. After, it is expected to include a moment of physical activity (30 minutes) oriented.
Adolescents between 15 and 18 years with BMI at or above the 85th percentile.
Provide absolute contraindication for physical activity for musculoskeletal, neurological, vascular problems (intermittent claudication), lung and heart; presence of diagnosis of severe psychiatric disorders and / or presence of significant cognitive impairments;pregnant women; diagnosis of Diabetes mellitus type I.
Reduction of at least 0.5 percentile point on the Body Mass Index (BMI) measured by considering height, weight and the z-score.
Improvement of physical and dietary aspects: Reduction of at least 5% abdominal circumference measured by waist circumference in cm, of the diet improves the quality measured by the 5% of healthy eating index (IAS), 5% increase in capacity cardiopulmonary measured by VO2 max and reduced at least 7% in systolic blood pressure measured by the blood pressure measurement.Improvement of metabolic aspects: With respect to lipid profile: Reduction of at least 20% of the plasma triglycerides increase of at least 5% of the plasma HDL cholesterol and reduction of at least 5% in total cholesterol and LDL measured by the blood sample.Regarding the glycemic profile is expected to be reduced by at least 5% at the end of the intervention assessed by fasting glucose.Improvement of Psychological aspects: Increase of one point in the continuous variable readiness to change for performing physical exercise and nutrition to be changed after the end of the intervention.
Impact of a Physical Activity Program on Plasma Concentrations of Adipocitokines in Overweight and Obese Schoolchildren from Public Schools at Ouro Preto and Barbacena Cities, Minas Gerais State
Impact of a Physical Activity Program on Plasma Concentrations of Adipocitokines in Overweight and Obese Schoolchildren from Public Schools at Ouro Preto and Barbacena Cities, Minas Gerais State
A study of students enrolled in public schools in the urban area of the city of Ouro Preto which were considered overweight and obesity through anthropometric data (BMI) and invited to participate in the study. The sample consisted of 79 children aged 6 to 9 years whose only parents and / or guardians signed the consent form authorizing the participation of children, as well as their participation in educational lectures. eligible children for the study were distributed using a table of random numbers, so blind and unconscious into two groups: intervention and control. intervention group (N = 40): children were allocated to undergo a program of physical activity three times a week, in the afternoon, lasting 50 minutes for four months semester of school. activities under the program of physical activity intervention consisted of playful banter, team games, running and jumping in a gymnasium. control group (N = 39): children allocated and parents underwent a program educational lectures about healthy eating habits, physical activity and family relations during the four months of the school semester, two lectures per month - one for parents and one for children, a total of eight activities
Children between six and nine years enrolled in public schools in the urban area of the city of Ouro Preto.
Children whose parents consented to their participation by signing the Consent.
Children aged six to nine years, with chronic diseases. 

It can be observed that there was no significant difference when comparing pre-and post-intervention in the intervention and control groups individually, as well as the comparison between the control and intervention groups at pre-intervention period. However, there was a significant difference between the intervention and control groups in the post-intervention for adiponectin (p = 0.002), showing a tendency to increase in the proportion of subjects with higher plasma concentrations of adiponectin in the intervention group in the post-intervention compared to the control group. Only variables LDL-c and weight had an influence on the variation of adiponectin.
In comparing the data in the control group between pre-and post-intervention, the following results were significant at the 5% level: increased weight, increased BMI, increased height, skinfold thickness decreased and blood glucose increased. For the intervention group, the comparison of data between the pre-and post-intervention achieved significant results at the level of 5%, increased weight, BMI decreased (6%), skinfold decreased HDL-C and decreased blood glucose levels increased. In comparing the data in the post-intervention between the intervention and control groups, the results were: weight, BMI,% BF, PC, HDL-C, ghrelin, adiponectin and body fat percentage did not differ. Already WHR, TC, TG, LDL-C were higher in the intervention group and glucose lower after the intervention period.       
Evaluation hip conditions in childhood and adolescents
Clinical and functional evaluation of children and adolescents with hip conditions
Three groups will be studied:
Experimental group: 25 patiens with dysplaced slipped capital femoral epiphyses who underwent basocervical osteotomy combined to cervicoplasty
Patiens with slipped capital femoal epiphysis. Patient skeletal immature during the basis treatment and between 8 and 21 years during the final evaluation. Treatment performed in the same institutuion, with all documentation available regarding imaging and history

No acceptance in participating on research ou parents disagreement. Surgery performed after the ain surgical procedure that could alter the proposed evaluation. Incomplete documentation or loss of follow-up, making statistical analysis less reliable. Stiffness of the hip. Osteoarthritis

Recovering of the radiogaphic alignment of the epiphyses with the femoral diaphyses (decrease of the epiphyseal diaphyseal angle on the lateral radiographs) MOST IMPORTANT ENDPOINT
None secondary endpoint are expected
Study of the oral hygiene in infants without teeth and its impact on expression of the face and on factors that can favor caries in the childhood
Evaluation of the early establishment of oral hygiene in edentulous infants regarding the facial expression and factors that predispose to caries in the very early childhood
Experimental group: oral cavity cleaning with gauze and tap water, for 30 seconds, during 30 days, once a day at the baby care center and once a day at home (n=50 babies)
Control group: no cleaning (n=50 babies)
Babies from 4 to 10 months and from major nurseries in the city, considering the different geographical regions will be invited to participate in the study. Infants of both genders, with good general health and whose parents have signed the positive consent form will be submitted to a clinical examination of your oral cavity to evaluate the presence/absence of teeth, emphasizing that at the beginning of the research/baseline babies should be edentulous.
Babies submitted to antimicrobial therapy in the last month and with cleft palate, cleft lip, or  with special needs will be excluded from the research.
It is expected that the research finish after the analysis and collection scheduled, proving, or not,  the benefit of hygiene.
It is expected, that the benefit, or not, of the hygiene could be proved before teeth eruption.
Effects of speech therapy on chewing of individuals who underwent surgery to correct an imbalance in facial pattern
Effects of  miofunctional therapy on masticatory function of patients undergoing orthognathic surgery
Experimental group: 24 individuals with dentofacial deformity, 14 underwent speech therapy and 10 without this treatment, after orthognathic surgery. Control group: 24 individuals with normal occlusion, matched by gender and age with the study group.Evaluations were performed before three and six months after surgery. The orofacial myofunctional therapy was performed 30 days after surgery with 10 weekly sessions. The selection of patients in the treated group was done randomly and after six months the treatment was offered to the group that did not receive the therapy.
Experimental group: age between 18 and 45 years; regardless of gender and present Class II malocclusion or Class III malocclusion. Control group: young adults; good health both general and oral; relationship between dental arches with horizontal and vertical overlap between 1 and 3 mm; natural dental elements at least until the second molar; nasal breathing.
Neurological psychiatric and intellectual deficits; partial or total edentulous patients; presence of cleft lip and palate.
Improvement of masticatory function of patients with dentofacial deformities who underwent orthognathic surgery and performed speech therapy sessions, verified through clinical and instrumental assessments of masticatory function from the observation of improvement of the group that conducted the mionfuncional therapy compared to the group not treated.
Improved chewing function of patients undergoing orofacial myofunctional therapy. Verified by clinical and electromyographic of the masticatory function from the observation of differences between the treated and untreated group.
Soil Pilates impact Compared to Walk in Rolling Mat on Fatty Liver and insulin resistance
Impact of Pilates Exercises Based on Solo versus Aerobic Exercise in Fatty Liver Disease, Enzymes and Insulin Resistance
188 women volunteers will be divided by lot in the experimental group (n 94): exercises based on ground pilates (EP) and the active control group (n 94): aerobic exercise (EA)..
Aerobic exercise protocol (EA) (n 94)
Female volunteers; aged between 30 and 70 years; abdominal obesity; hepatic steatosis confirmed by ultrasonography
Volun smokers; alcoholic; decompensated heart disease; decompensated liver disease; physically active
Reduced hepatic steatosis, verified by ultrasound; from the observation of a change of at least 10% in pre- and post-intervention measurements and is considered the degree parameter 1, 2 and 3
Insulin resistance reduction, verified by HOMA index, based on the statement of a variation of at least 10% in pre and post intervention measurements and is considered high-value above 2.5
Effect of vibration stimulus in fibromyalgia women
Acute effect of whole body vibration in neuro endocrine inflammatory parameters in fibromyalgia women
This is a study with two groups, one consisting of women with FM and another for healthy asymptomatic women (control group), both groups received the intervention (whole body vibration stimulus). In the first session all volunteers were evaluated for physical function, work, well being, pain, quality of life, depression and sleep quality through the application of questionnaires: the FM impact questionnaire, visual analogue scale pain, quality of life questionnaire, Beck Inventory, Pittsburgh sleep quality index. In addition, it will evaluate the functional capacity of the lower limbs through the sit up from the chair test. Also in this session the participants were familiar with the whole body vibration stimulus on the vibration platform, adopting the position adopted during the trial session and received the vibratory stimulus for 40 seconds, to avoid interference in oxygen consumption and heart rate due to anxiety generated by performing a different exercise from conventional. In a second session we performed the experimental protocol consisted of stay for 10 minutes followed by performance of dynamic squat exercise on the vibratory platform (8 series of 40 seconds with 40 seconds of rest between sets. The frequency used was 40 Hz and amplitude of 4 mm (intensity 1). Before and immediately after this protocol, blood sample were collect, as well as measurement of blood pressure, and application of visual analogue pain scale and perceived exertion scale. For characterization of strength of the whole body vibration stimulus, after standing for at least 10 minutes to ensure return to the body homeostasis, the volunteers of both groups performed two vibration exercise protocol with an interval of at least 10 minutes between exercises. A portable gas analyzer was used to measure consumption
oxygen during the whole procedure (intensity 1, 2 and 3). The order of the exercises will be held in a balanc
Fibromyalgia: present confirmed diagnosis of fibromyalgia by rheumatologist. According to the American College of Rheumatology for the characterization of the disease, the symptoms must persist for at least 3 months.
Control: not present rheumatic disease or serious general health changes and not be inserted in any physical activity program. These women were selected paired form (1:1) according to age and anthropometric variables with fibromyalgia group.
being a smoker; drinking alcohol; make use of immunosuppressive medication; present any concomitant disease that can be exacerbated by physical activity; pregnancy; orthopedic impairments; respiratory and inflammatory diseases or cardiovascular diseases; be followed up with a psychiatrist, or perform physical activity for the same 2 times a week; Acute hernia; thrombosis; epilepsy; orthopedic injuries; prostheses. The above criteria were used for both groups.
After the study of end results showed that individuals with fibromyalgia have an "status inflammatory" inherent disease and acute stimulation of whole body vibration (low intensity and short duration), seem to be enough to cause interaction (disease versus stimulus) and thus, modulation of inflammatory markers in order to fit inflammation homeostasis. Also the acute stimulation of whole body vibration promoted an increase in oxygen consumption and heart rate in a manner similar between groups.
After the study results demonstrate that women with fibromyalgia have an average score of 75.58 on the impact questionnaire fibromyalgia. Ratings in this questionnaire above 70 on a scale of zero to 100 are considered severe impact of the disease. Regarding the Beck Depression Inventory showed a score of 22.10 and the women in the control group showed score 10.90. Scores above 17 are classified as having depression. Also women with fibromyalgia had an average of 14.1 points painful, since the women in the control group 0.85. It was also identified worst performance on the sit and up from a chair test of the fibromyalgia group with an average of 8 reps while asymptomatic women performed 12 repetitions on average.
Effect of drug therapy in the treatment of migraine
Additional effect of physical therapy to drug treatment in reducing the intensity and frequency of migraine - a randomized controlled trial
Group of drugs: 25 volunteers will be instructed to taken orally (25 mg) of amitriptyline at night for two 
months and will be allowed to use up to 600mg of Ibuprofen in cases of crisis stronger. 
Will be included 50 individuals with migraine, female, aged between 18 and 55. Will be considered only patients with at least two attacks and a maximum of 12 days of pain per month, with disease duration longer than one year, they are only in ambulatory treatment with amitriptyline up to 25 mg for at least 3 months.

Will be excluded women with diagnoses of other concurrent headache diagnosis of migraine, history of cervical trauma and face, with uncontrolled systemic diseases affecting the musculoskeletal system, peripheral nervous system diseases, which have physical therapy in the last one year specific to region or craniocervical posture and have some clinical contraindication to the use of amitriptyline as cardiac arrhythmias, glaucoma and epilepsy.
Reduced Frequency (in days) and intensity (in hours) of by Migraine headache diary.
Increase in neck range of motion in degrees using the Cervical Range of Motion (CROM). 
Colour durability of Resin Cements Activated by Light and Double-Activated
Colour stability of Photoactivated and Dual Resin Cements
Clinical exam and impression of the maxillary dental arch of 10 participants were conducted and replicas were made with type IV plaster. 2 laminate veneers (0.3 mm thick) were made for the buccal surface of the second upper premolars of the individuals (1 for the left second premolar and 1 for the right second premolar), 0.5 mm distant from the gingival margin. Control group: 10 laminates were cemented to one of the upper second premolars (left or right, according to randomization) of the participants with the transparent shade of a resin cement, with photoactivation (activated by light). Experimental group: 10 laminates were cemented to the remaining upper second premolar with the transparent shade of a resin cement, with dual activation (chemically activated and activated by light).
Volunteers of both genres; age between 20 and 45 years; with good general and oral health; absence of orthodontic appliance; absence of posterior crossbite; absence of noncarious cervical lesions; upper second premolars vital and without restorations; upper second premolars with colour homogeneity in relation to adjacente teeth; areas of buccal surface that circumscribe a circle with minimum diameter of 6 mm
Individuals with gingival recession on buccal surface of upper second premolars; dental sensibility to air blast; enamel or dentin defects; tetracycline staining; unilateral or bilateral crossbite; mandibular prognathism; maxillary retrognathism; smokers
After 8 months follow-up, there was not statistical difference between the groups for color alteration
After 8 months follow-up, there was no marginal staining for both groups
Octreoscan - kits production of tumor diagnosis neuroendocrine
Octreoscan - kits production of tumor diagnosis neuroendocrine
Single group: 35-39 will be included tests or patients. All patients will both capture images and the minimum time between two images will be 2 days and a maximum of 20 days. To perform image capture patients should be about 30 days without receiving anti-somatostatin treatment. First capturing images with 99mTc, period 
Patients with histologically proven TNE; Which have been referred for the exam with 111In for staging disease and / or response to treatment; Any stage of the disease; 18 years old; Both sexes; Without receiving medication with somatostatin analogues for at least one month prior to taking pictures.
Pregnant women;
Patients with previous resection of primary tumor without metastatic disease.
The primary endpoint will be the presentation of sensitivity, defined as the proportion of participants with metastases in mediastinal lymph nodes (confirmed by histology (gold standard)) which has a positive test (99mTc uptake and / or uptake 111ln) and the presentation of specific, defined as the proportion of participants without metastases in mediastinal lymph nodes (confirmed by histology (gold standard)) which has negative test (99mTc uptake and / or uptake 111ln). The sensitivity of 99mTc (Technetium) is the proportion of patients with radioisotope uptake in the mediastinal lymph nodes among those who truly have metastatic lymph nodes. Moreover, the specificity of 99mTc is the proportion of patients with no radioisotope uptake in mediastinal lymph nodes from among those who truly have metastatic lymph nodes. Will be deemed acceptable, a priori, sensitivity and specificity of at least 90%.
As for the secondary outcome, will be presented the positive predictive value is the proportion of participants with positive test (in this case, the 99mTc uptake and / or uptake by 111) that actually have metastases in mediastinal lymph nodes (confirmed by histology (gold standard )) and the negative predictive value is the proportion of participants with negative test (in this case, the 99mTc uptake and / or uptake by 111) that really do not have metastasis in mediastinal lymph nodes (confirmed by histology (gold standard)).
Rehabilitation in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome
Conservative treatment in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome: randomized and controlled trial study
Group 1: Home orientation exercises guidelines (gliding exercises and median neural mobilization) and nigth splinting, type cock-up for 6 weeks.

Group 2:Home orientation exercises guidelines (gliding exercises and median neural mobilization); nigth splinting, type cock-up for 6 weeks, low-level laser (660 nm, 20 J/cm², 30 mW),12 sessions, twice a week.
Patients with clinical and electromyographic diagnosis of non surgical CTS.
Patients with no nerve damage associated with multiple complex lesions, bone or joint injury, the presence of central nervous system injury, or other chronic metabolic and degenerative rheumatic diseases, leprosy and diseases affecting the peripheral nervous system.
Esthesiometry: senstive assessment on the path of the median nerve. Grip strength with the Pinch Gauge®: strength assessment of pulp to pulp pinch between the first and second finger.  Boston Questionnaire (BCTQ): validated, translated and specific for the functional assessment of patients with carpal tunnel syndrome Two-point discrimination: stereognosis tactile assessment.
Biomaterials for preventing sensibility after
home bleaching
Randomized clinical trial study of effect of potassium nitrate and strontium chloride  associated to the bleaching home treatment
Experimental group 1: 20 volunteers of both
genders were treated with home dental
60 people aged between 18 and 26 years;
any genders? good health; no-snmoking;
Having received previous dental bleaching;
restorations on the anterior teeth; pregnant
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 4 weeks.   It is not expected interference in results of the bleaching treatment in the groups assessed, verified by spectrophotometry, from the observation of the increase in the value of Delta E (indicating the success of the bleaching treatment), after 4 weeks.
Absence of postoperative sensitivity in experimental groups 1 and 2, verified by   sensitivity tests (thermal and mechanical stimuli), after 1, 2 and 3 weeks.
A placebo versus study medication trial study for verification of improving survival in metastatic colorectal cancer patients.
A phase III double-bblinded, placebo controlled study of xilonix™ for improving survival in metastatic colorectal cancer.
Clinical safety/efficacy, randomized, double-blinded, phase 3 trial of placebo versus xilonix. It will be included 800 patients of both sexes aged 18 years or older. Patients will receive 1 dose every 2 weeks of placebo (1/3 of patients) or of 7,5 mg/kg of the human monoclonal antibody anti interleukin 1a (also named MABp1 or xilonix) that will be administered intravenously for as long as the patient is beneficiating or until he/she reaches any of the protocol discontinuation criteria, i.e: pregnancy, consent withdrawal, disease progression, adverse event that justifies the patient withdrawal or study termination by the sponsor. 
Subjects with pathologically confirmed colorectal carcinoma that is metastatic or unresectable and which is refractory to standard therapy; to be considered refractory, a subject must have experienced progression (or intolerance) after treatment with at least all of the following agents: oxaliplatin, irinotecan, flouropyrimidine, and cetuximab or panitumumab if KRAS (retrovirus-associated DNA (desoxinucleic acid) sequences isolated from Kirsten murine sarcoma viruses) wildtype; subjects will not be treated with any radiation, chemotherapy, or investigational agents while enrolled in this protocol;  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0, 1, or 2; at least 2 weeks since the last previous cancer treatment including: chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, surgery, hormonal therapy, or targeted biologics and 4 weeks for patients who received treatment immediately prior to the study with anti-IL-1 (anti-interleukin 1) or anti-TNF (tumor necrosis factor) agents; age 18 years or older, male or female subjects; serum potassium and magnesium levels within Central Lab normal limits. Total serum calcium or ionized calcium level must be greater than or equal to the lower limit of normal. Subjects with low potassium, calcium and magnesium levels may be replenished to allow for protocol entry; adequate renal function; adequate hepatic function; adequate bone marrow function; for women of childbearing potential (WOCBP), a negative serum pregnancy test result at screening and monthly thereafter; for women who are not postmenopausal (24 months of amenorrhea) or surgically sterile (absence of ovaries and/or uterus): agreement to use adequate methods of contraception, during the treatment period and for at least 1 month after the last dose of study drug; signed and dated institutional review board (IRB)-approved informed consent before any protocol-specific screening procedures are performed; patients enrolled must, in the investigator’s judgment, be healthy enough to stay on the clinical trial for three months.
Mechanical obstruction that would prevent adequate oral nutritional intake; serious uncontrolled medical disorder, or active infection, that would impair the ability of the patient to receive protocol therapy; uncontrolled or significant cardiovascular disease; dementia or altered mental status that would prohibit the understanding or rendering of informed consent; subjects who have not recovered from the adverse effects of prior therapy at the time of enrollment to grade equal or lower than 1, excluding alopecia and grade 2 neuropathy; immunocompromised subjects; history of hepatitis B or C; history of tuberculosis; receipt of a live (attenuated) vaccine within 1 month prior to screening; subjects with history of hypersensitivity to compounds of similar chemical or biologic composition of xilonix; women who are pregnant or breastfeeding; WOCBP or men whose sexual partners are WOCBP who are unwilling or unable to use an acceptable method of contraception for at least 1 month prior to study entry, for the duration of the study, and for at least 1 month after the last dose of study medication; weight loss higher than 20% in the previous 6 months; history of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy or other demyelinating disease; subjects on immunosuppressive therapy, including transplant patients.
Overall survival will be the primary endpoint of this study survival time will be defined as the duration from the date of randomization until death or censor date. 
Secondary endpoints will include change in lean body mass (LBM) and quality of life from screening to the cycle 5 assessment. Other secondary endpoints will be progression-free survival, objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and stabilization of platelet counts. Lean body mass measurements will be obtained through the use of dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans. Quality of life will be assessed with the EORTC QLQ-C30 version 3 (Quality of Life Questionnaire for Cancer patients from the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer). Response and progression will be evaluated using the Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC).
Effects of low level laser therapy in muscle fatigue of elderly women pre and post a quadríceps femoris exercise program 
Effects of low level laser therapy in peripherical muscle fatigue in elderly women submitted to a program of muscular strength
Experimental group 1: 15 elderly women receive active low level laser therapy after performing quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. Experimental group 2: 15 elderly women receive placebo low level laser therapy after performing quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. Control group: 15 women elderly women will be assessed but won´t not receive low level laser therapy, and they will not be submitted to the  quadriceps femoris muscle strengthening exercise. The training will be done twice a week, lasting up to 10 minutes per session. The allocation of the volunteers in each group was made randomly. Subjects of experimental grroup 1 and 2 performed the exercise during 8 weeks, twice a week. Control group also was reevaluated after 8 weeks.
No pain or dysfunction in trunk and lower extremities 
Full active range of motion of hip, knee and ankle
Pain in the lower extremities or trunk; 
Restriction in range of motion of hip, knee and ankle; 
Decreasing fatigue electromyographic of vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and rectus femoris through median frequency of the signal before the study, 24 hours after the study and 48 hours after the study The hypothesis is that  active laser group will show lower values of fatigue when compared to placebo and control group, and that placebo group will show lower values when compared to control group.  
Increasing of amplitude of the electromyographic signal of rectus femoris, vastus medialis and vastus lateralis obtained through root mean square analysis of the signal obtained before study,24 hours after the study and 48 hours after the study. The hypothesis is that active group will show greater values when compared to placebo and control group, and that placebo will show greater values compared to control group. There will be not show diference in the control group.
Association of Lipid Concentration in the Blood Cells with Clinical Status of Pediatric and Adolescent Patients with Cystic Fibrosis Supplemented with Fish Oil
Association of Fatty Acid in Erythrocytes with the Clinical Status of Pediatric and Adolescent Patients with Cystic Fibrosis Supplemented with Oil Rich in Omega-3
Supplementation with fish oil capsules containing 180mg of fatty acid eicosapentaenoic (EPA) and 120mg of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), in quantities of 20 to 30 mg/kg, for six months in all patients with diagnoses of cystic fibrosis, of both sexes, between 5 to 19 years, attended the Reference Center in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil). Single-arm study, all patients received the same intervention, and the patient was his own control. 97 patients were considered eligible.
Patients with cystic fibrosis, between 5 and 19 years of age, attended the National Institute of Women
Patients with liver disease, steatorrhea, diarrhea and vomiting uncontrolled, exacerbation of the disease, indicating lung transplant, pregnant teens, and patients without adherence to medication and nutrition treatment, patients using supplements with omega-3 within 3 months before the study began.
Determination of fatty acids in erythrocyte by gas chromatography conducted every three months for one year. It is expected that fish oil supplementation promotes the incorporation of fatty acids in erythrocytes by improving the imbalance between fatty acids generally observed in patients with cystic fibrosis.
Assessment of anthropometric indicators (body mass index/age and height/age) and the body composition (arm muscle circumference, triceps skinfold and body fat percentage) by measurement of weight, height, arm circumference and triceps skinfold every three months for a year to evaluate   anthropometric and in body composition with fish oil supplementation. Evaluation the intake of energy and macronutrients (carbohydrates, proteins, fats and fatty acids) by 24 hour recall every three months for one year and check for possible changes with the intervention. Assessment of disease severity by clinical score Shwachman-Kulczycki, every three months for a year, this score is divided into four categories (general activity, physical examination, nutrition and radiographic findings) to evaluate clinical changes during the study. Data on bacterial colonization obtained from patients records based on the results of cultures of airway (sputum) every three months for a year to assess changes in infection with the intervention. To evaluate length of hospital one year before, during and after the study and verify possible changes after the intervention from patients records. Dosages of inflammatory markers (TNF-alpha, interleukins (IL-1 beta, IL-6 and IL-8) PGE2 and LTB4 in blood plasma by ELISA (enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay) based on antigen-antibody reactions detectable by enzyme reaction (enzyme immunoassay)to assess the inflammatory status every three months during the study.
Early skin to skin contact: effect on maternal stress and mother-child interaction
Early skin to skin contact: effect on maternal stress and mother-child interaction at 2 and 4 months corrected gestational age
"
Preterm newborns with birth weights between one thousand and eighteen hundred grams; preterm newborns stable in terms of respiratory and hemodynamic submitted or not in ventilatory support, between twenty four and seventy two hours of postnatal life; preterm newborns classified as appropriate for gestational age; mothers who did not show signs of psychological change

Preterm newborns with Apgar score less than seven at five minutes of life; newborns with congenital malformations; preterm newborns who had intraventricular hemorrhage and or hydrocephalus

The study revealed that children who underwent skin to skin contact during the first 3 days of life (experimental group) responded to the still face with changed of the vocalization, unlike the group that performed later, in the second (p = 0.015), as in the fourth month (p=0.048).
This study suggests that, although not significant (p = 0.166), there was a reduction of moderate / severe anxiety (16.6%) after second skin to skin contact in the experimental group.
The effect of manual therapy in the column on the autonomic nervous system in patients with muscle and joint pain
The effect of manipulative therapy on cardiac autonomic nervous system of musculoskeletal pain patients: a randomized controlled trial
Group 1 will be allocated 20 subjects who receive the high speed and low amplitude manipulation technique in the upper thoracic region. Group 2 other 20 subjects will receive myofascial mobilization technique. The placebo group will be composed of 20 subjects who will receive the intervention with therapeutic ultrasound equipment off in the upper thoracic region, near the articulation of the first rib with the first thoracic vertebra.
Pacients in the physiotherapy sector at the Gaffrée and Guinle University Hospital that are experiencing musculoskeletal pain.
Surgery on the thorax/spine location do not allow realizing the proposal technics; Pregnant women;
Rheumatologic diseases in acute inflammatory phase;Osteoporosis; Bone tumors; Pacemaker carrier; presenting cardiac arrhythmia or being transplanted heart; ingested foods and drinks which containing caffeine on the day of the experiment; consumed alcoholic drinks on the last 24 hours;
Verify the response of the parasympathetic cardiac autonomic modulation through the high frequency component of heart rate variability based on the statement of a variation of at least 20% between the pre and post intervention measurements.
Verify the response of the sympathetic nervous system through the variation of systolic and diastolic blood pressure to painful stimulation induced by cold.
Effect of Human Ration on Weight Loss and Bone Health in Overweight Women
Effect of Human Ration in Weight Loss and in Bone Health in Overweight Women
Study led with female subjects enrolled in a Family Health Strategy in Viçosa, Minas Gerais. The minimum sample size of 20 individuals was calculated based on the study of Mera et al. (1998), based on body weight change of 6.4% and a standard deviation of 4.63 kg assuming a statistical power of 95 %, according to Allison et al. (2003). The inclusion criteria were body mass index greater than 25 kg/m2 and age between 24 and 45 years. This is a prospective, randomized, cross-over. The quantity of total study participants were 22 volunteers, from which are formed two groups of volunteers, randomly. The subjects were submitted to two different treatments in different orders, randomly: 15% caloric restriction associated with consumption of shake placebo containing no feed (human intervention one) then a 15% caloric restriction associated with the consumption of shake test feed containing 20 g (human intervention 2), or vice versa. Intervention 1: Shake the 11 subjects consumed milk containing 20 g of Feed Human as a substitute for breakfast, seven days per week for five weeks. Intervention 2: 11 subjects consumed a placebo as a substitute shake breakfast, seven days per week for five weeks. After the first intervention, 1 or 2, subjects underwent a week interval between treatments (washout) and soon after, the order of the speeches were exchanged and those individuals subjected to intervention 1 underwent intervention 2 and vice versa.
Female gender. IMC higher than 25 and less than 34.9 kg/m2 and age between 24 and 45 years.
Pregnant or breastfeeding women. Menopausal women or who underwent removal of the uterus. Which used anti-inflammatories. Who presented intolerance or allergy to any ingredient in the product. Which drink´s alcohol or smokes. Who were using the drug for inhibiting appetite. Antidepressants or whatever to interfere in bone mineral metabolism (bisphosphonates, anabolic steroids, calcitonin, fluoride, hormone replacement therapy, androgens, calcium, vitamin D, thiazide diuretics, and statins). Women with a history of conditions or diseases associated with changes in bone mass such as kidney disease (cholelithiasis, chronic renal failure), gastrointestinal disease (celiac disease, chronic liver disease, malabsorption syndrome, gastrectomy or colectomy). History of endocrine disease (hyperparathyroidism, hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism). Fractures in the last six months. Which had shown restraint for more than two months and showed fluctuations in body weight greater than 5% in the two months before recruitment.
There were modifications in anthropometric measures weight and waist circumference, but there were no differences between treatments. There was no change in blood pressure level. Body composition and bone health showed no significant changes. The group that consumed "Human Ration" showed improvement in hemoglobin concentration (P = 0.0001) and were not observed any loss in relation to the absorption of zinc. Erythrocyte zinc and BMI (body mass index) showed a negative correlation r = -0.5123 P = 0.0005. 
Volunteers who consumed "Human Ration" showed a significant increase in iron intake (P = 0.0002), phosphorus (P < 0.0001), zinc (P < 0.0001) and vitamin E (P = 0.001). There were no changes in physical activity level of the volunteers.
Influence of strength training performed alone or associated with functional training on the cardiovascular system of elderly patients with Parkinson Disease.
Effect of resistance training performed alone or associated with functional training on cardiovascular function and autonomic modulation in elderly patients with Parkinson Disease.
Groups - Patients with Pakinson will be randomized to: control (n=15), resistance training (n=15)and resistance training associated with functional training(n=15). Subjects without Parkinson will participate in the Control intervention (n=15).
Control: no training protocol.
45 Individuals with Parkinson
Presence of complex arrhythmias and/or ischemia during exercise
Improvement of autonomic cardiovascular modulation  assessed by spectral analysis of heart rate and blood pressure variabilities obtained at rest and in response to autonomic stimuli.
Increase in maximal strength assessed by one repetition maximum test.
Effect of mobilization of the temporomandibular joint and hyoid bone in the neck system: controlled randomized clinical trial
Craniocervicomandibular system : evaluation methods and multimodal therapeutic intervention
Were part of the treatment group 13 women , they performed 10 treatment sessions, twice a week . The treatment consisted of joint mobilization techniques: the medial - lateral and longitudinal slides made ??on the temporomandibular joints in a small degree of motion, intermittently for 30 seconds, repeated twice. In between each mobilization , there were five mouth opening movements with language in the incisive papilla , in order to promote local relaxation. The lateral mobilization of the hyoid bone performed repeatedly for 30 seconds twice , with the patient supine. Another 13 women belonged to the control group did not perform any treatment until the reassessment.
Women; have TMD diagnosis as the RDC / TMD instrument; Temporomandibular index greater than 0.5 ; belong to age group 18-40 years; patients able to understand commands ; are willing to participate in the study by signing the free and informed consent.
Fracture or previous surgery in orofacial or cervical region; a neurological disorder or neoplastic disease in the craniocervical region; irritable nerve compression evidence assessed by neural tests for the median, radial and ulnar ; They are making use of medications during the study period.
They were selected according to the sample calculation , thirty patients. A reduction of mixed dysfunction of 92.3 % to 15.4 % in the treatment group . In addition, TMD diagnosis , present in all patients in the evaluation , was deleted in 69.2 % of patients in the treatment group , the revaluation . There was an increase in the pain threshold in the anterior temporal muscle, masseter average , suboccipital and scalene . It also identified increased electrical activity of sternocleidomastoid during maximum intercuspation .
These findings show that the joint mobilization was effective in suppressing the DTM , in improving cervical dysfunction and pain sensitivity of the anterior temporal muscles and scalene . The technique does not interfere with the muscle activity that little was altered in the study participants, although these present serious DTM .
Effects of a program of exercises with increasing weight for individuals with coronary artery disease
Effects of a resistance physical exercise program based on determination of anaerobic threshold in increasing resistance testing in patients with coronary artery disease
Will be evaluated 20 male volunteers with age between  50 - 80 years.Patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), ie presenting any cardiac event such as coronary artery bypass grafting, angioplasty, acute myocardial infarction.
 Started assessments will be undertaken:
Mens with aged between 50 and 82 y,with a clinical diagnosis of coronary artery disease, with at least 12 months after the acute event or 12 months after surgical or percutaneous revascularization, nonsmoking, non-alcoholic, non-users of drugs that cause addiction, presence of clinical stability, absence of acute exacerbations of the disease, anaemias in general, electrolyte disturbances and / or uncompensated metabolic, absence of permanent pacemaker or defibrillator implants or valve, absence of respiratory disorders, signs of ischemia or ST segment depression, complex arrhythmias, left ventricular dysfunction, and absence of neurological, neuromuscular, musculoskeletal and osteoarticular disabling, controlled blood pressure and level of understanding that does not prevent the implementation the proposed protocol.

Smokers, women, people with impaired muscle and bone.
Increase muscle strength of the quadriceps muscle and improvement in muscular endurance verified for Leg press 45° second protocol of 1 repetitium maximum test (1RM) with a difference of at least 10% between measurements pre intervention and post intervention.
 Heart rate variability (HRV)decrease  in 10% after resistance exercise assessed through by cardiofrequencimeter  
Effects of electrical stimulation of the quadriceps muscle strength and walking capacities in patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis
Peripheral effects of electrical stimulation on peripheral muscle strength and exercise capacity in patients with chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis
Two groups (Group training and Sham group) conducted training with peripheral electrical stimulation isometric form in lateral and medial bilaterally vast, held three times a week, lasting an hour, the first two hours of dialysis.
Will be applied using portable stimulators with 4 channels. The parameters are:
Patients with CKD diagnostic who are on dialysis regularly for at least 6 months,  stable and under medical supervision; patients without: uncontrolled hypertension, recent ischemic heart disease (3 months or less), unstable angina and severe cardiac arrhythmias; patients without diseases that limit the electrical stimulation protocol (respiratory, orthopedic and / or neurological); patients who do not do any form of physical training or who have been held for more than six months.
Inability to perform any of the study assessments (lack of understanding or collaboration); recent decompensation of the clinical picture with or without hospitalization; presence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD or emphysema), musculoskeletal diseases that impede the realization of assessments and training protocol, uncontrolled hypertension, recent ischemic heart disease (3 months or less), unstable angina and severe cardiac arrhythmias; abnormal sensitivity in the lower limbs.
Peripheral muscle strength: increased quadriceps strength evaluated by the Isokinetic Biodex System 4 Pro in isometric mode. The highest peak extensor torque is recorded compared before and after training.  Six-minute walk test: will be used to evaluate submaximal exercise capacity and will be held in accordance with the recommendations of the American Thoracic Society (Holland et al, 2014.). The greater distance between the two tests will be used for the analysis, this being compared to pre and after training. The reference values are those described by Britto et al., 2013 and an increase of 25 meters after the training will be considered a clinically important improvement.
Pulmonary function test: performed with the portable digital spirometer the following parameters are obtained: forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the FEV1 / FVC ratio expressed in absolute terms and in percentage of predicted values normality according to the determined by Pereira et al. (2007). The values ??are compared before and after intervention.  venocapillary pulmonary congestion: assessed by ultrasound, the severity of pulmonary congestion will be categorized into three classes according to the number of signs of cometary tails (light: 14 comets; moderate: 14-30 comets; severe: 30 comets). Values ??are compared pre- to post-intervention.  Diaphragm mobility: assessed by ultrasound at craniocaudal displacement of the left branch of the vein cava during inspiration and maximum expiration. The values ??are compared to pre post intervention.  Balance reviewed evaluated by 3 Smart Equitest System tests (NeuroCom), which will present a score. The values ??are compared to pre post intervention to see if there were improvements.    Quality of life will be measured using the questionnaire Kidney Disease and Quality-of-Life Short Form (SF KDQOL-), the degree of commitment of each domain is measured by values ??ranging from zero (greater degree of commitment) 100 (no impairment). Thus, the higher the score, the better the quality of life. The questionnaire will be pre to post intervention to see if there were improvements.  Anxiety and Depression: It used the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - HADS (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale). The overall scores for each subscales (anxiety or depression) ranges from 0 to 21, where 0 corresponds to the lowest level of depression or anxiety and 21 at most. At the end, add up the scores of anxiety and depression. The scale is reapplied to the end of the training to compare the scores.  physical activity in daily life, performed with a triaxial accelerometer that is able to distinguish activities such as sitting, lying and walking, and measure the time spent on each activity. Individuals use the device for 7 consecutive days for 12 hours a day, starting immediately after awakening. They will be considered for analysis day with and without hemodialysis and also the average for all days of the week, from Wednesday to Friday. The time for each activity and the number of steps will be compared to pre after intervention.  Clearance of urea, glomerular filtration rate, assessment of biochemical markers (pro cytokines and anti-inflammatory, muscle trophism markers), oxidative stress analysis of markers of muscle damage: will be held during the monthly blood collection clinic patients during hemodialysis and will be compared in the pre- and post-training to check whether there have been improvements. 
Yoga exercise for health of the patients with high blood pressure and diabetes
Yoga exercise for health of the pacients with arterial hypertension and diabetes type II
Experimental group: 15 women with arterial hypertension with or not with diabetes submited to four months, twuice a week, of yoga exercise program with physical postures, breath exercises and body relaxation. Control group without intervention: 15 women with arterial hipertension with or not with diabetes not submited to a yoga exercise program, observed for four months.
Age between 50 and 75 years; with arterial hypertension light or moderadate; to be under medical and or pharmacological treatment.
Other cardiovascular disease; use of medication bethablockage.
The rest arterial systolic blood pressure messured were reduced (p<0,05); the heart hate varibility messured by portable cardiac device not arised (p>0,05).
The preception of quality of life were improved  (p<0,05) ; the functional fitness were improved  (p<0,05).
The role of the pharmacist in the team care of hospitalized patients with Chronic Brochitis or Emphysema
Pharmaceutical care Programme for inpatients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in a Tertiary Teaching Hospital in Southern Brazil 
75 patients will be randomized to control and 75 to intervention group.
Control Group- usual care provided by assistential team (pneumology or internal medicine service) without pharmacist participation.
Inpatients with exacerbation of COPD  at HCPA.
difficulty of understanding (absence of response to verbal commands, severe psychiatric illness, retardation, blindness), psychiatric illness with corresponding CID; metastatic desease; decompensated severe heart disease.

Rate of hospitalization due to exacerbation of COPD, observed by the medical records. 
Drug-related problems rates (effectiveness, necessity, safety) using the Dader Method adapted for the sample.  
Evaluation of Maternal Training and Auxiliary Methods for Improving Toothbrushing on Babies
Evaluation of Mothers Training and Auxiliary Methods on Babies Toothbrushing Effectiveness 
Group I, control: conventional hygiene by babies
Babies presenting at least four deciduous teeth in the mouth, with at least half of the crown exposed; Babies free from tooth decay
Infants presenting carious lesions
The outcome for smooth and occlusal surfaces was similar. At the first and second visits, group II showed a significantly lower plaque index when compared to group I. On the third visit, there was no significant difference between groups. The dental plaque index mean of all visits showed that the dental plaque disclosure before oral hygiene, group II: 0.80 ± 0.55/ smooth surface and 0.73 ± 0.56/occlusal surfasse, resulted in lower plaque index when compared to conventional oral hygiene, group I: 1.15 ± 0.49/smooth surface and 1.25 ± 0.55/occlusal surface.  
The comparison related to the three training visits showed that there was no improvement in toothbrushing over time. The surfaces of all teeth were evaluated using the modified Greene and Vermillion index. The surfaces were divided into 3 equal portions and according to the amount of dental plaque, the following scores were given: 0 – Absence of dental plaque, 1 – Dental plaque covering no more than one-third of the surface, 2 – Dental plaque covering more than one-third, but no more than two-thirds of the tooth surface, 3 - Plaque covering more than two-thirds of the surface. The mean score was calculated through division of the sum of stained surfaces by the number of surfaces evaluated. The score from 0 to 1 was considered a good oral hygiene, from 1.1-2 regular, and from 2.1 to 3 poor. 
Effects of exercise training with power control in muscle strength, cholesterol and body fat postmenopausal women
Effects of physical training and diet control on muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, biochemical variables and body composition in postmenopausal women
The study enrolled women aged 50 to 70 years, all in menopause (FSH
Female volunteers; aged between 50 and 65 years; present in the menopausal period without menstruation for 1 year or more; possess a medical certificate to perform the tests required and participate in the training program.
Present physical limitations or any health problems that prevent the implementation of the evaluation or bodily practices; accumulate three consecutive unexcused absences or 4 unexcused absences during the month of intervention.
Because it is a finished research, we observed statistically significant improvement (p <0.05) of body composition variables after 16 weeks of training. The maintenance of body composition values occurred for the body fat variable (persistence of the effects in time 6 months or 1 year). However, for the variable body composition (lean mass) there was no persistence.
Because it is a finished research, we observed statistically significant improvement (p <0.05) the standard variable food and practice regular physical activity, and observed the maintenance of these variables (persistence of the effects in time 6 months or 1 year).
The educational program evaluation in diabetes mellitus
The educational program on diabetes mellitus reviewed focus on empowerment
The study consists of 10 clusters (groups), each representing a health family team from the city of study. These groups were homogenized for glycated hemoglobin and education for subsequent randomization.
The groups were randomized, with 5 teams (for the group of patients) for interventions and 5 teams (for the group of patients) for the control. Totaled 304 people after inclusion, exclusion and loss, and 162 in the intervention group and 142 in the control group. All patients have participated in the first stage (time zero) blood collection for glycated hemoglobin, cholesterol and fractions, and interview validated instruments that address knowledge of diabetes, psychological attitudes against diabetes, self-care activities performed against diabetes and empowerment for self-care of diabetes. This first collection for the zero time
Belonging to the health strategy of the urban family; aged between 30 and 80 years; diagnosis of type 2 diabetes; schooling for responding to the questionnaires; availability to attend the education program. Sample size target: 304 people.
Reading disability; have at least one chronic complication of diabetes mellitus and renal failure; retinopathy; amputation of limbs or diabetic foot.
Reduction in weight and BMI. Collection of weight and height at zero time, time and time 6 12. Reference value for BMI: <25 Kg / Sq Ft.
Self-management of DM - involves adherence to diet and exercise in day-to-day. Method for collection: it will use the ESM test has a total score of eight points. This variable defines the foundation of the hypotheses of this research, which seeks to determine its effects on disease control in relation to adhesion to diet and physical activity. To show that the patient has achieved a change in behavior, must obtain a minimum score of five points.
Effect of group vaginal muscle training in  post-menopausal women
Effect of a group pelvic floor muscle training in climateric and post-menopausal  women
42 post-menopausal women included in this study were divided by draw into two groups: Treatment Group –TG (n=21) and Control Group - CG (n=21). Three eomen from the TG did not complete the treatment and nine from the GC did not perform the final evaluation, being included 18 in treated group and 12 in control group. The treatment consisted  of 12 sessions of 30 minutes each, twice a week, summing up a total of 6 week treatment (8-10 women). During the treatment protocol, pelvic mobility exercises, stretching, strengthening and relaxation were performed in every session in five different positions (supine, followed by sitting on the floor, then on the Gym Ball, squat and standing position), along with the PFM contractions, which were carried out consisting of four series of ten fast contractions together with four series of ten sustained contractions, lasting eight seconds followed by a sixteen second relaxation, maintaining the same positions according to the Silva’s Protocol (21).
Post-menopausal women  for at least 5 years; with complaints from urogynecological symptoms; participants of Physical Activity in Congonhal
women with vaginal or urinary infections; pelvic cancer; uncontrolled metabolic disorders (hypertension and diabetes); cognitive, psychiatric or neurological disorder; chronic vaginal pain; inability to contract the pelvic floor muscles (PFM); pelvic organ prolapse stage IV according to the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification System (POP-Q) and severe heart disease , who added up to four volunteers
Decrease of the cystocele gravity in treated group (p=0.03). No significant differences were found in the rectocele (p= 0.31). 
There was a decrease in the ICIQ-OAB scores only in the TG at final evaluation (p<0.001)and in the ICIQ-UI SF scores between the TG and CG after the treatment (p=0.036). No significant differences were found in vaginal symptoms by the ICIQ-VS score. 
Training respiratory muscles really improves functional capacity in patients with spinal cord injury?
Effects of Inspiratory Muscle Training with Dynamic Resistance on Aerobic Capacity in Traumatic Spinal Cord Injury: Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial
Inspiratory muscle training with dynamic resistance.
In the training group: 100 breaths, using all the vital capacity and visual feedback, initially with 40% of the maximal inspiratory pressure measured, 3 times a week for 4 weeks. 20 patients
During a period of 10 to 12 months, we will select males; non-smokers; with traumatic SCI; with complete motor injury (ASIA A or B), between T4 and C5 levels; injured for more than 6 months; who are able to perform an arm crank exercise test in an upper limbs cyclergometer.  They will be admitted from Neurorehabilitation in spinal cord injury program from Sarah Network of Rehabilitation Hospitals Brasília.
Will not be included in the study patients with scheduled surgery; with known heart or lung diseases; athletes; or who presents acute infectious syndromes or with any clinical decompensation.
It is expected an increase of 10% in peak oxygen uptake (VO2), after 4 weeks of inspiratory muscle training, measured on a maximal arm crank cardiopulmonary exercise test, compared to the control group.
All variables will be measured at baseline and after a four week training period. - Lung function: it is expected an improvement in vital capacity and in maximal inspiratory pressure in training group. Spirometry and manuvaccuometry test will measure: slow (VC) and forced vital capacity (FVC); Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1); FEV1/FVC and FEV1/CV relations; maximum expiratory and inspiratory pressures; nasal inspiratory pressure to sniff. - Exercise responses: it is expected an improvement in ventilatory efficiency and a higher ventilatory threshold, in comparison to control group. Other variables from cardiopulmonary exercise test: heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure; carbon dioxide production (VCO2), minute ventilation (VE); ventilatory equivalent for O2 and CO2, VE/VCO2 slope; workload (W); respiratory quotient; oxygen pulse; peripheral O2 saturation; expired O2 and CO2 pressure; subjective percieved effort (0 to 10). - It is expected diaphragmatic thickening with training, that will be evaluated with conventional ultrassound. - Echocardiogram: significant changes in myocardial morphology or function like chambers' diameters and walls thickness, ejection fraction and cardiac output, are not expected. They will confirm lack of cardiac remodeling with this training modality. 
Study of sleep, respiratory control during sleep and quality of life in morbidly obese subjects undergoing bariatric surgery.
Sleep study, respiratory mechanics, chemosensitive response and quality of life in morbidly obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery: A prospective, randomized, controlled
Subjects morbid obese undergone bariatric surgery will be asked to participe in the study. All the subjects
Grade III morbid obesity (BMI between 40 and 55 kg/m²) or between 35 and 39 kg/m² with comorbidities;
Both gender patients aged 18 to 65 years;
Any medical condition rendering surgery too risk;                                 
Clinically significant or unstable mental health concerns;
Slope of ventilatory response to carbon dioxide performed by spirometry. The rebreathing test was performed according to Read technique. Patients breathed through a mouthpiece and, after a steady state was achieved, basal ventilation was recorded for three minutes. Then patients started to breath connected to a 15 L latex balloon filled with a 7% CO2 and 93% O2 mixture for five minutes or until an end-tidal CO2 pressure PetCO2 of 70 mm Hg was reached or until exhaustion. Data were acquired by a metabolic cart (Vmax 29c, Sensor Medics, USA) and the slope of ventilatory response to carbon dioxide was obtained from the linear regression between ventilation and PetCO2. Data were adjusted by a 0.9 correction factor to correct flow readings for hyperoxic gas mixture.
Sleep physiological variables assessed by the standart overnight polysomnography.
Influence of positive airway pressure in the range of reduced pressure after exercise in hypertensive Patients with Obstructive Sleep Apnea
Influence of positive airway pressure in the magnitude post-exercise hipotension in hypertensive patients with obstructive sleep apnea
The study will be conducted with 30 patients with hypertension and obstructive sleep apnea where everyone will receive the same treatment and be evaluated before and after the intervention.
Patients carry out assessment of respiratory muscle strength (maximum inspiratory pressure and maximal expiratory pressure); peak expiratory flow; Epworth sleepiness scale.
Sleep Apnea diagnosis, both genders, is between stage 1 and stage 3 hypertension; Being classified as Insufficiently active by Physical Activity Questionnaire; present classification in moderate to severe polysomnography; owning between 20 and 80 years, no history of previous lung disease, not present muscle damage, joint or bone that may compromise the partial or complete execution of any proposed exercise
Be classified as active in international physical activity questionnaire; presence of chronic lung disease.
Decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) at baseline and end of study, before and after intervention, considering variation of at least 5%
Improvement in sleep quality assessed by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale; improvement in nocturnal blood pressure by ABPM (> 10% and <20%)
Energy expenditure and cardiovascular response of gait in traumatic lower limb amputees
Analysis of energy expenditure and cardiovascular responses while gait in amputees
The study was observational, no intervention was not performed. All volunteers from both the group and the group of amputees amputees were not evaluated in the same way. The volunteers underwent assessment of energy expenditure and cardiovascular responses during walking on a treadmill pleasant and two speeds from that. The march was pleasant selected by the volunteers prior to implementation of study protocols.
We studied 30 male subjects, 20 with lower limb amputations (10 transfemoral amputees and 10 transtibial amputees) and 10 non-amputee subjects (control group). For the sample, amputees should have been aided more than two years, to walk without gait aids, prostheses using lined with dynamic Sach ® foot and transfemoral, knee own mechanic. All subjects evaluated should not have hypertension, cardiovascular disease, or any pathology that could alter the quality of gait.
All subjects evaluated should not have hypertension, cardiovascular disease, or any pathology that could alter the quality of gait.
The outcome of this study is to evaluate the energy expenditure of amputees, blood pressure and heart rate have values ??higher than those found in non-amputees during walking. For this amputees (transtibial and transfemoral) were compared to non-amputees during running speed nice (VMA) and speeds above 20% and 20% below that. During the performance of protocols running all subjects were monitored for oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, heart rate and blood pressure
The secondary endpoint is to evaluate the energy expenditure of amputees, blood pressure and heart rate are lower or similar to those found in non-amputees during marcha.Para that used the protocol running speed nice and amputees and individuals amputees were not evaluated in relation to blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen consumption.
Effects of physical exercise and nutrition on the risk of heart disease in adults and elderly in city San Antonio of Goiás
Metabolic syndrome: prevalence and effects of physical exercise and nutritional supplementation in adults and elderly of city Santo Antonio Goiás
Experimental group: 22 women with metabolic syndrome underwent combined exercise (resistance + aerobic), 3 times per week with intensity moderate / high controlled by perceived exertion scale, for 24 weeks.
Control group: 14 women without metabolic syndrome underwent combined exercise (resistance + aerobic), 3 times per week with intensity moderate / high controlled by perceived exertion scale, for 24 weeks.
Women; age 18-59 years; not be taking regular exercise and targeted to at least one year; have the permission of the medical team for physical exercise; availability time in three days a week in the evening for an hour a day for 6 months; no orthopedic limitations; absence of neurological limitations; absence of severe cardiovascular disease that would prevent the practice of physical exercises.
Unavailability time; history of abuse of alcohol or drugs; We are practicing physical exercise regularly over the past 12 months; not have medical clearance for physical exercise; physical limitations that prevent physical exercise; neurological limitation that prevents physical exercise; cardiovascular disease in serious condition.
Significant reductions in measurements of systolic blood pressure with p = 0.01 and diastolic blood pressure with p <0.001 verified through the evaluation of blood pressure levels.
Significant reductions in body weight with p = 0.02, body mass index with p = 0.02, the hip circumference with p <0.001, waist / height with p <0.001, reduction of skinfold thicknesses with p <0.001, verified by anthropometric assessment.
Evaluating the effectiveness of bariatric surgeries: Scopinaro modified and classic Scopinaro in treating obesity
Evaluation of Safety and Effectiveness Scopinaro technique modified the surgical treatment of obesity compared to classical technique Scopinaro
Will be recruited 28 participants who will be divided into 2 groups of 14 participants each. One group will receive the Classic Scopinaro surgery and the other, Scopinaro Modified.
In Scopinaro Surgery Modified will be held with laparotomy and median opening in layers. It will also be performed at the manufacturing drifting bileopancreática Roux-en-Y, dividing the small estômago.Um communication portal to be left and calibrated through a nasogastric tube of 10mm where a retaining ring is placed horizontal gastroplasty, in order to avoid an expansion of this communication.
28 participants.Individuals of both sexes. Age between 18 and 65 years. Body Mass Index (BMI)more than 35. Body Mass Index greater than or equal to 40. Be indicated for bariatric surgery after other attempts at treatment. If BMI more than 35 and less than 40 must submit AT LEAST one comorbidity (Type II diabetes or dyslipidemia or hypertension or joint arthropathy in average or great or sleep apnea or hypothyroidism).
Pregnant or breastfeeding.Undergone bariatric surgery révia.Apresentar limiting psychiatric disorders according to the evaluation of especialista.Be user of illegal drugs or alcohol abuse. Be severe disease carrier according to an evaluation specialist. Be severe lung disease carrier according to the evaluation of especialista.Ser of liver cirrhosis carrier. Being active virus carrier(HIV). Has any condition that prevents surgery
Changes in the nutritional status of the participant, evaluated by blood test for evaluation of protein, blood count and periodic evaluations with the doctor. First results after 180 days after the procedure.
Increase the participant's weight loss without enough of it. Reviewed medical consultation, evaluating the body mass index.
The Pilates method in the elderly
Effect of the Pilates Method in the elderly with pains.
The present study will consist of three interventions: training with the Pilates method, training with kinesiotherapy, and educational actions.
Pilates training will consist of 16 exercise sessions, each session lasting one hour for eight weeks. The training will consist of exercises of the Pilates Method Solo in a progressive way, that involved exercises of strengthening, stretching and balance. The group will present 14 volunteers
Volunteers with chronic músculoesquelética pain; female; aged between 60 and 75 years.
Neurological symptoms; discrepancy between limbs greater than two centimeters; ankylosing spondylitis; rheumatoid arthritis; disc herniation; tumor; infection; vertebral fracture; cauda equina syndrome; cardiovascular or cognitive impairment.
Increase in quality of life regarding social aspect (23%) and vitality (20%) after training with the Pilates method. The kinesiotherapy group and the educational actions group presented no significant difference.
The activity of internal oblique, abdominal rectus, multifid and iliocostal muscles after training, evaluated during the muscle strength test, did not present any difference in the groups evaluated.
Impact of hidrotherapy and dry land exercises in daily activities and quality of life of older people with knee osteoarthritis
Impact of physiotherapy aquatic and dry land exercise in functional capacity and quality of life of older adults with knee osteoarthritis: a randomized clinical trial
Intervention programs have a duration of 12 weeks, with every three days a week and last approximately 30 minutes.
Volunteers will be randomly allocated into 3 groups. Aquatic intervention group of 10 elderly volunteers with knee osteoarthritis will be submitted to aquatic physical therapy program in a therapeutic pool with temperature maintained between 32 C and 34 C. The intervention program will consist of motor coordination and agility exercises; flexibility (stretching) of the legs and arms muscles; Timeline perception and reaction speed through activities with balls; Balance: standing up on boards; muscle training: doing resistance exercises for arms and ground intervention pernas.Grupo: 10 elderly volunteers with knee osteoarthritis will undergo the same activities described above, but in the terrestrial environment (physical therapy clinic). Control group - inactive: 10 elderly subjects with knee osteoarthritis who do not perform any type of exercise or other physical therapy.
Volunteers diagnosed with knee osteoarthritis; both genders; age above 60 years.
Volunteers with severe cardiac and respiratory diseases; fibromyalgia; epilepsy; knee replacement or hip; inability to walk independently; otitis; sores on the skin; mycoses; hydrophobia.
Increased flexibility through Wells test (around 5 cm), improved functional capacity through the TUG test / Timed Up and Go (mean time less than 10 seconds), reductions in scores on the WOMAC index / Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (from 20 to 30 points in most volunteers) and quality of life assessed by the WHOQOL-BREF (between 70-80% in physical, mental and social domains) in both exercises after completion programs of interventions. In the control group it is expected that there are no changes in the values of any variable analyzed.
The results in both intervention groups are statistically better (considering p <0.05) than the control group, the following variables: pain, stiffness and function assessed by WOMAC index, flexibility through bank Wells, dynamic balance by means the TUG and quality of life analyzed by WHOQOL-Bref after the end of treatment.
Evaluation of post-operative pain following use of reciprocating instrumentation technique in root canal treatment.
Evaluation of post-operative pain following use of reciprocating instrumentation technique in endodontic.
Were used 78 male subjects, aged between 18-64 years. These were randomized into an experimental group of 39 men receiving endodontic treatment through a RECIPROC instrumentation technique, performed in a single visit by a single operator. And another control group of 39 men receiving endodontic treatment through a Protaper instrumentation technique, performed in one session by a single operator. All patients were evaluated after 24, 72 hours and 7 days and calibrated by a trained examiner to check the post-operative pain levels.
78 volunteers; male; aged between 18 and 64 years; that already had endodontic treatment indication in permanent molars teeth; diagnosed with necrotic pulp with or without asymptomatic apical periodontitis.
Volunteers at the time of intervention were administering antibiotics or corticosteroids during the treatment; with immunocompromised; which would complicate the systemic disease; these factors could change the perception of pain or interfere with the score analysis of postoperative pain.
The intensity of pain experienced by patients after endodontic treatment in the Reciproc group was similar to those in the ProTaper group (p > 0.05). In both groups, the highest levels of postoperative pain were recorded 24 h after each procedure, but these levels decreased after 72 h and 7 days after endodon- tic therapy, although differences were not significant (p = 0.55).
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Association of the elastic bandage to Manual Therapy in the neck pain
Association of the Kinesio Taping to Manual Therapy in the neck pain
On experimental group 1, 5 participants were chosen at random, 4 women and 1 man with neck pain who were treated with physical therapy techniques such as stretching, 2 times 30 seconds, massage for 2 minutes and manipulations in the neck by 3 times 30 seconds, and elastic bandage, totaling 3 calls for 1 week, alternately, performed by the researcher.
On experimental group 2, 5 participants were chosen randomly women who were treated only with physical therapy techniques such as stretching, 2 times 30 seconds, massage for 2 minutes and manipulations in the neck 3 times 30 seconds, totaling 3 patients during 1 week, alternately, performed by the researcher.
Target sample of 10 volunteers of both genders who sought physiotherapy service complaining of neck pain and age between 21 and 30 years
Historic injury in cervical whiplash; diagnosis of pathologies associated like neoplasia and thrombosis; presence of open wounds; allergies to bandage; use of drugs a week before the study or during its accomplishment and that are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Increased muscle strength in cervical period of one week checked through of strength tests of the cervical spine from the analysis of a variation of less than 10% percent in measurements pre and post intervention
Significant decrease in cervical pain; improvement in absolute values of cervical range of motion; no significant gain of cervical muscle strength
Effects of the biometenergy of practitioners of meditation on chronic spine pain
Effects of the biometenergy of practitioners of pranic meditation on the evolution of chronic diseases
Study group: 26 individuals of both sexes (3 males and 23 females), 33–82 years, and with chronic back pain. Subjects received 12 sessions of a treatment of distant healing with biometenergy (subtle energy or vital) emitted with healing intention by a practitioner of pranic meditation, during 3 weeks of a total of 6 weeks of study. Participants were randomly assigned to two groups: group A (n=12), consisting of subjects who did not receive the treatment at weeks 1, 2 and 3, but received the biometenergtic treatment at weeks 4, 5 and 6, or to group B (n=14), whose subjects received biometenergetic treatment at weeks 1, 2 and 3, but did not receive at weeks 4, 5 and 6. The subjects were unaware of when they would receive BME treatment. Each individual received a total of 12 sessions of treatment at distance: one by week at the physician’s office, and three by week (from the healer’s home), in which the participants were separated from the emitter by kilometers. Each daily treatment lasted about 17.02 min ± 2.2 in the physician’s office, and about 20 minutes from the residence of the healer. For the treatment at distance the emitter used techniques of pranic meditation. He emitted biometenergy with intention of 
Volunteers, both genders, with back pain longer than 3 months, recent medical report, older than 18 years old, no previous participation of pranic meditation courses and no have any knowledge about the techniques of pranic meditation, and the written informed consent
Smokers; alcohol users; pracitioners of pranic meditation
After 6-week of study the primary endpoint was the significant reduction of spine pain in subjects treated with biometenergy, as verified by values of McGill Pain Questionnaire. There was also significant reduction in the intensity of spine pain immediately after each daily treatment, according to scores of the Faces Pain Scale (FPS) applied before and after BME-treatment sessions  
There was a significant reduction of the skin temperature along the vertebral column in subjects treated with biometenergy. This result was obtained with based on average of the temperature values recorded by a infrared camera capable of capturing and recording infrared radiation emitted by human body
Comparison of a training videogame with conventional physiotherapy on postural control and quality of life of patients with Parkinson
Effects of physical therapy assisted by Kinect system in postural control, cognition and quality of life of patients with Parkinson
Group-based conventional therapy (control group): group of 16 patients will perform conventional therapy based on European guidelines physical therapy in Parkinson
Thirty-two participants will be selected between 50 and 80 years; diagnosed with idiopathic Parkinson
Patients will be excluded that during the period of the study present any clinical change that makes it impossible to perform physical exercises in standing position as cardiorespiratory; orthopedic or neurological disorders.
PRIMARY OUTCOME EXPECTED: analysis of the change in the static postural balance and limits of stability modification verified through measure of center of pressure displacement (COP) in force plate (Balance Rehabilitation UnitTM) at an acquisition frequency of 100Hz. The mean and standart deviation of the displacement (range) of CoP trajectory will be recorded in medial-lateral (ML) and anterior-posterior (AP) directions and then will be analyzed in the three periods of evaluation of the study, both the control and experimental group, by using the statistical program SPSS version 20 (IBM Corp.). The static postural balance will be evaluated in 10 different situations: orthostatic position on firm ground with eyes open and eyes closed, orthostatic position on the foam with eyes closed; orthostatic position on firm ground with saccadic stimulation;orthostatic position on firm ground with optokinetic stimulation with horizontal direction from left to right;orthostatic position on firm ground with optokinetic stimulation with horizontal direction from right to left; orthostatic position on firm ground with vertical optokinetic stimulation with direction from the top down;orthostatic position on firm ground with optokinetic stimulation with vertical direction from the bottom up; orthostatic position on firm ground with optokinetic stimulation with horizontal direction associated with movements of head rotation;and orthostatic position on firm ground with vertical optokinetic stimulation direction associated with movements of flexion-extension of the head. Each position will be maintained for 60 seconds.
SECONDARY OUTCOME EXPECTED: Analysis to the improvement in postural control, functional mobility, cognition and quality of life using scales and / or questionnaires. Means and standard deviations of the scores obtained in the scale will be analyzed in the three periods of evaluation of the study, both the control and experimental group, by using the statistical program SPSS version 20 (IBM Corp.). The improvement in postural control will be assessed by Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test,scale consists of 14 items that assess the dynamic balance, session with each performance is evaluated normal (2) to severe (0), being that the smaller the final score, the worse the postural control; Improved functional mobility verified through time in seconds for the test to stand, walk and sit (Timed up and go test). The improved functional mobility and the risk of falls will be evaluated eight tasks involving gait in different sensorial contexts, including flat surface, changes in gait speed, horizontal and vertical head motions, go over and around obstacles, turning on his own body and up and down stairs through Dymanic Gait Index test. The improvement of cognition will be assessed by the Montreal Cognitive Scale which assesses different cognitive domains such as spatial and visuo executive functions, naming, memory, attention, language, abstraction, late evocation and orietation, with a total score of 30 points where higher scores than or equal to 26 indicate normal performance. The quality of life will be assessed by the Brazilian version of Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire consists of 39 items divided into 8 dimensions that include mobility, activities of daily life, emotional well-being, stigma, social support,cognition, communication and corporal discomfort, with scores ranging between 0 (no problem) to 100 (maximum problem, where a lower score indicates better perception by the individual for quality of life.
Analysis of the cardiac frequency and oxygenation during sleep in patients with the Obstructive Sleep Apnea Syndrome
Study of autonomic cardiac behavior and oxygen saturation during sleep in patients with the Obstructive Sleep Apnea Syndrome
Will be recruited 150 subjects with suspected obstructive sleep apnea and will be evaluated by clinical interview and the questionnaire of daytime sleepiness Epworth. Participants will undergo a single assessment which will consist of a pulse oximetry and polysomnography during a full night
Individuals of both sexes;
Aged 18-80 years;
Patients who underwent polysomnography, but whose data are not technically acceptable.
Presence of subclasses of individuals according to clinical parameters and in different stages of sleep. Measurements: Analysis of oxygen saturation variability and heart rate variability, combined with the other existing methods for analysis of the severity of obstructive sleep apnea, such as the index apnea / hypopnea per hour of sleep, the time of the saturation oxygen spent below 90% and the oxygen desaturation index per hour of sleep.
Increase in the correlation of the variability of oxygen saturation with the heart rate variability in different degrees of severity of obstructive sleep apnea and were considered mild apnea subjects with apnea / hypopnea index between 5 and 15 events per hour of sleep apnea moderate 16 to 30 events and severe apnea more than 30 events per hour of sleep.
Treatment with electrotherapy on sleep quality in postmenopausal women with urinary urgency complaints and sleep interrupted by the urge to urinate
Effects of electrical stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve on sleep quality in postmenopausal women with symptoms of overactive bladder and nocturia
Intervention group: 20 women will be subjected to electrical stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve for 30 minutes once a week, totaling 12 sessions of treatment.

Control group: 20 women will receive the placebo treatment, without active treatment.
They will be included 40 postmenopausal women (over 12 months of amenorrhea); aged between 40 and 90 years; presenting urinary urgency and nocturia.
Women with postmenopausal time less than 12 months; presenting apnea; restless legs syndrome; mild to severe depression and mild to severe anxiety; heart disease uncontrolled; presence of prolapse of pelvic organs; presence of pelvic pain; history of pelvic surgery, except cesarean surgery; uterine bleeding; inflammation and / or urinary tract infection; diabetes mellitus; smoking.
Improved quality of sleep observed by the final scores of the questionnaires: Quality Index Pittsburh sleep (PSQI) and Epworth Sleepiness Scale, after 12 treatment sessions.
Decrease in the number of times the volunteer raises the night to urinate (nocturia improved).
Effect of baru almond in coronary heart disease risk factors
Effec of baru almond in serum lipid and oxidative state in individuals with moderate hypercholesterolemia
20 hypercholesterolemic adults will be randomized to receive two treatments in alternated phases:

Intervention: supplementation of 20g/day of roasted baru almond. The baru almond will be provided in individual portions stored by vacuum. Baru almond should be consumed throughout the day as snacks or with other meals.
Men and women alduts (19 - 60 years old); omnivores; BMI between 18.5 and 30 kilogram per meter squared; total cholesterol between 50-95 th percentile (NCEP - National Cholesterol Education Program): between 200 and 255 mg/dL for men and between 201 and 265 mg/dL for women, 
Use of any nutritional intervention and/or drugs, such omega 3 or dietary fiber; vegetarians; presence of chronic diseases, such hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or cancer; chronic alcoholics (consumption more than 2 times a week); frequent consumption of nuts (more than 2 times a week); allergy of nuts.
Serum LDL-c reduced 9.4% after 6 weeks of supplementation with baru almond.
There was a significant reduction of 8.1% in total cholesterol and non-significant 10.4% for triglycerides. The homocysteine??, total antioxidant capacity, oxidative status, body composition and dietary intake did not changed during the study.
Effects of fish oil supplementation  on pre diabetes in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Effects of omega 3 fatty acids supplementation  on insulin resistance in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Patients (n-100) will receive basic nutritional orientations based  on healthy eating and will be divided into two groups according to the type of supplementation with either omega-3 (1080mg of EPA plus 720mg of DHA) polyunsaturated fatty acids (fish oil - Test Group) or 1800mg of soybean oil (control group) for 12 weeks.
Adults (age 
Diabetics or those using drugs to alleviate insulin resistance, co-infected (HIV or HBV), hepatitis with autoimmune or use of antiviral treatment (interferon and ribavirin), decompensated liver disease or patients with hepatocellular carcinoma; With other neoplasias; Patients with chronic renal failure or decompensated heart failure.
Reduction of insulin resistance, according Homa, in patients with chronic hepatitis C after supplementation with omega 3 fatty acids
Reduction of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1,IL-6, TNF)  in patients with chronic hepatitis C after supplementation with omega 3 fatty acids
Action of low power laser on pain and quality of life and sleep in patients with fibromyalgia
Effect of low-level laser therapy on pain, quality of life and sleep in patients with fibromyalgia
In the 36 study participants, will be applied to laser therapy low power (TLBP) on an automated laser (Twin Laser - MM Optics, São Paulo) who possessed two identical points of application provided by the manufacturer, with an active tip (TLBP group) and the other placebo, which does not emit energy (control group), but both possess the buzzer and the light guide. The two groups with 18 patients in each will receive four times applications per week for a period of three weeks a total of twelve sections. Applications shall be made in a timely and direct contact between the tip and the patient
A clinical diagnosis of fibromyalgia based on American College of Rheumatology criteria;  
Cognitive level sufficient for understanding the procedures and following the instructions; 
Psychiatric disorders, history of drug abuse or other behaviors that require intervention psychiatric medication;
 Development of uncontrolled clinical situations that prevent participation in aerobic activities, for efforts or group activities;
Improvement in pain, assessed using the following instruments: visual analogue pain scale, McGill Pain Questionnaire and pressure algometry. It is expected that the group treated with low power laser presents significant reduction of pain intensity scale analogic visual and increased pain threshold force to the pressure in algometry and the lower frequency in the selection of pain descriptors in categories affective and sensory and psycho-emotional component in the responses obtained in the McGill Pain questionnaire
Improving quality of life and sleep, as assessed through the following instruments: test generic Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the specific Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), polysomnography, and questionnaire Berlin Epworth sleepiness scale.It is expected that the group treated with low-power laser shows improvement in overall quality of life as assessed by testing generic Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item and Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) mainly in the items, which include scales related to functional capacity, physical, bodily pain, general health and vitality. In the questionnaire Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), is expected to improve the quality of life issues related to the functional capacity, employment status, psychological distress and physical symptoms. In the items related to sleep quality as polysomnography, the Berlin questionnaire and Epworth sleepiness scale is expected to improve the quality of sleep.
Effectiveness of denture adhesives in chewing of complete denture wearers  
Effectiveness of denture adhesives on the kinesiographic records and satisfaction of complete denture wearers  
Patients will receive new conventional dentures, and after the adjustment period after the insertion of dentures, the sample (n = 50) will be divided in two protocols, and, in sequential and alternating periods of 15 days will be assigned to two types of protocol proposed: protocol 1- denture adhesive application during the first 15 days, followed by the absence of denture adhesive over the next 15 days; protocol 2-absence of denture adhesive during the first 15 days, followed by application of denture adhesive over the next 15 days. 
Adults;
Mentally agile and responsive;
Debilitating neurological or systemic diseases;
Cardiac pacemaker;
Patients’ satisfaction with denture adhesive  evaluated by answering the questionnaire to assess subjectively patients satisfaction with and without use of denture adhesive after each period of assessment.
Retention of the denture adhesive on the kinesiographic records(three-dimensional motion of the jaw during chewing and movement of dentures during mastication) in new denture wearers. 
Use of surfactant with corticosteroids to prevent chronic lung disease in premature infants
Intratracheal instillation of budesonide, using surfactant as a vehicle, in the prophylaxis and rescue therapy of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome to prevent bronchopulmonary dysplasia: a randomized clinical trial
Experimental group: 45 premature infants receive budesonide associated with intratracheal surfactant, in the first two hours of life to prevent bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The medication once will be held in the first two hours of life and, if necessary, a second dose may be held if the newborn requires intubation with supply of oxygen fraction greater than 40%, six hours after the first dose. Control group: 45 premature infants receive conventional treatment with intratracheal surfactant use, the first two hours of life. The medication once in the first two hours of life will be held and, if necessary, a second dose may be held if the newborn requires intubation with supply of oxygen fraction greater than 40%, six hours after the first dose. The patient will be evaluated for outcomes bronchopulmonary dysplasia and mortality, with 28 days and then at 36 weeks corrected gestational age.
Every newborn with 0-2 hours of life; both sexes; who required prophylactic surfactant or early redemption replacement therapy. Sample size target: 90 research subjects.
Loss of follow-up of the newborn before 28 days of chronological age (except in case of death);
Congenital malformations of heart and lung; except patent ductus arteriosus and pervious foramen ovale.
Improvement in respiratory status increase survival rate and/or decrease bronchopulmonary dysplasia  
 Early intratracheal instillation of a budesonide-surfactant mixture improve the respiratory status in preterm infants with moderate to severe respiratory distress syndrome
Study with use of gastrin releasing peptide in children with autism
Experimental Study of a Case Series of Gastrin-releasing Peptide use in Pediatric Patients with Autism
Administration releasing peptide gastrin (GRP) 10 participants, intravenously, at a dose of 160 picomol / kg, continuous infusion of 30 minutes duration, 1x daily for 4 consecutive days. GRP study was synthesized by the Biopeptide Co., Inc., San Diego, USA, and has suitable purity for clinical studies in humans. There was no control intervention.
Diagnosis of infantile autism by the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, aged between 3 and 18; CT scan or MRI of normal brain; karyotype and normal research Fragile X;
Conditions associated with an increased acid secretion in the gastrointestinal tract such as gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, reflux esophagitis; diabetes; heart disease;
 residence outside of Porto Alegre and the metropolitan area; secondary autism to genetic disorders or sensory deficits;
Results: Six (60%) of the 10 participants showed improvement after GRP. The subscales of the ABC analysis showed that 8 patients (80%) showed improvement in subscales Irritability and Hyperactivity, 7 in subscales Stereotyped behaviors and Lethargy and social withdrawal (70%) and 4 subscale Inappropriate Speaks (40%). The larger effect sizes were the Irritability subscale (1.72) and Lethargy and social withdrawal (1.57) .In CARS there was an average reduction of 4 points after administration of GRP (4.3 ± 2.9; p = 0.001), with an effect size of 1.4. Analysis of the ADI-R results showed significant improvement in the field that assesses social interaction, with an average reduction of 2.4 points (2.4 ± 2.83; p = 0.025). The effect size in this field was 0.85.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Evaluation of onset time and duration of Rocuronium in differet doses when used with Magnesium Sulfate
Interference of Magnesium Sulfate in onset time and duration of Rocuronium in different doses 
After the randomization, 180 patients will be divided into 2 groups:

a) Intervention (90 patients): receive, intravenously, Magnesium Sulfate (60 mg/kg plus 0.9% saline solution in 100 ml final volume) for 15 minutes prior to anesthesia. After, this group will be divided into 3 groups of equal size (30 patients) according to the dose of Rocuronium to be used for anesthetic induction: 0.3mg/kg, 0.6mg/kg or 1.2mg/kg.
Patients of aged 18 to 65 years;  both gender; ASA physical status I or II; body mass index (BMI) between 18 and 27; with general anesthesia indication under tracheal intubation and controlled mechanical ventilation for elective surgical procedures indicating use of muscle relaxant.
Use drugs that can influence neuromuscular blockade (as phenytoin and aminoglycosides); hepatic, renal ou cardiac impairment; neuromuscular disease; predictability of difficulty in ventilation by mask or intubation; risk or confirmation of pregnancy; patients with inadequate preoperative fasting or at risk of pulmonary aspiration; electrolyte disorders, use magnesium supplementation; other contraindications to the use of parenteral magnesium; surgery associated with massive bleeding or high volume replacements; patients that develop electrolyte or acid-base disturbance, hypothermia or any other intraoperative condition that interferes with neuromuscular blockade
Variation in onset time (time until 5% of the initial motor response), clinical duration (time to 25% recovery of neuromuscular function) and 25-75% recovery time (time for recovery of 25 to 75% neuromuscular function) of neuromuscular blockade induced by rocuronium in different doses associated or not with Magnesium Sulfate, measured by accelerometry the first finger after single twitch (1 Hz) of the ulnar nerve,  considered significant a difference of 10% between groups (with or without Magnesium Sulfate), corresponding to approximately 10 seconds.  
Improvement in tracheal intubation conditions by clinical analysis of the reaction to the endotracheal tube introduction (none, mild and strong), the position of the vocal cords (abduction, intermediate or closed) and the quality of laryngoscopy (excellent, good or bad) evidenced by increasing conditions "clinically acceptable" according to "Good clinical research practice in pharmacodynamics studies of neuromuscular blocking agents II: the Stockholm revision". Reduced adrenergic response to tracheal intubation by heart rate and noninvasive blood pressure, detected from a variation of less than 5% in measurements before and after tracheal intubation. Increased blood flow in the place  of the neuromuscular junction monitoring(adductor muscle of the first finger) after infusion of Magnesium Sulfate/Placebo, inferred by the skin temperature of thenar eminence and perfusion index (plethysmography pulse oximeter installed on the first chirodactyl) detected by increase greater than 10% for the perfusion index and 0.5 degrees celsius for temperature.
Treatment with Oral Breathing Exercises
Interdisciplinary approach of mouth breathers: use of Isostreching in treating respiratory and postural Techniques and Orofacials
20 youth will be evaluated with a minimum age of six years and maximum 20 years for inclusion of both sexes.
This single-arm clinical trial will be by simple randomization.
Young people with clinical diagnosis of dental and oral breathing; both genders; aged 6 to 20 years; with consent of parents or guardians for participation in this study
Young people with neurological problems; with heart problems, with agenesis of lower limbs
There was improvement in body asymmetry, especially in the sternoclavicular joint and posterior superior iliac spine.
There was improvement in maximal expiratory pressure and peak flow.
Clinical study to compare recombinant human growth hormone Cristália (r-hGH Cristália) versus Genotropin® pre puberty in children with failure to thrive due to deficiency of growth hormone.
Clinical study to compare recombinant human growth hormone Cristália (r-hGH Cristália) versus Genotropin® in prepubertal children with growth deficiency due to deficiency of growth hormone.
Experimental group (r-hGH Cristáli): 47 participants with failure to thrive will use the product investigational recombinant growth hormone. The product should be administered every day, with 0,33ug per kilo body subcutaneously for 12 months.
Comparator group (Genotropin): 47 participants with failure to thrive will use the product investigational recombinant growth hormone. The product should be administered every day, with 0,33ug per kilo body subcutaneously for 12 months.
Children aged 4 years and 13 years (for girls) and 14 years (for boys); Children prepubertal (Tanner stage 1); Bone age less than 11 years (for boys) and 9 years (for girls), documented by radiographs of the hand and wrist (will accept a radiograph performed within 6 months prior to enrollment in the study); Naïve children with growth hormone; Children diagnosed with disturbance in growth due to deficiency of growth hormone documented before initial treatment with r-hGH through: The height z score 
Children aged 
The primary efficacy endpoint is the difference in growth rate (cm / year) between the r-hGH group and Cristália GenotropinÂ® group after 12 months of treatment. The height is measured in millimeters using a stable estadiometer through a standard procedure, done equally in all research centers.
Difference in height variation, expressed by the variation in z score in height between the r-hGH-Cristália group and the Genotropin® group after 12 months of treatment. The Z score variation in height will be calculated as the difference between the height z score obtained after 12 months of treatment and the z-score of height obtained at the beginning of the treatment period. The Z score of height is the ratio of the actual height minus the average population height for age and sex divided by the standard deviation. The Z score calculation must be performed using the growth curve of the World Health Organization in 2007 to be provided in the study material. The investigator, or person designated by him / her should check the expected height and standard deviation for age and sex of research participants. All this information must be recorded in the source documents of the research participant The height is measured in millimeters using a stable estadiometer through a standard procedure, done equally in all research centers.
Somatic experience as a new technology for the treatment of posttraumatic stress trauma.
Somatic Experiencing®: Proposing a new technology for the treatment of Stress Disorder Posttraumatic
Therapeutic interventions were performed with the Somatic Experiencing® method with five civil servants diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder acquired in the workplace. For each research subject was planned to be submitted to eighteen individual sessions, which took place in own room with about 60 minutes duration each. The five study subjects underwent a total of 73 sessions lasting one hour, one session per week from August 2013 to April 2014 a specific protocol was applied in three stages interventions were:
1- Initial Sessions: Therapeutic Alliance and educational process (approximately six weeks);
They were accepted federal public servants with links and residence in the city of João Pessoa-PB. With a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress acquired in the workplace. Both genders, ages 18 to 70; referred by psychologists and physicians Subsystem Integrated Server-SIASS Health, who freely agreed to participate in all stages of the study. After informed about the objectives, purposes and study of the amounts accepted they signed the informed consent and informed.
Subjects were excluded if they have 10% lack of SE® sessions at any stage of interventions, had severe psychiatric illness, physical condition that did not allow feel bodily sensations, such as numbness, quadriplegia, hemiplegia; not agreed to participate in the research and / or were not available to participate in all stages of the study.
It was evaluated during follow-up of therapy that this method was efficient in this trauma renegotiation process in the research subjects, and from interventions with Somatic Experiencing®, there has been significant neurophysiological advances on the health status of the subjects . Many resolutions of physical symptoms, emotional and widespread tensions have been proven through a self positive assessment expressed during the therapy sessions. The expected result was achieved 100% with an average of fifteen sessions, and it is a viable protocol to be applied to federal public servants.
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Schoolchildren: relationship between postural deviations, pain and level of physical activity
Correlation of the level of physical activity for students with the presence of postural deviations in a state school in the city of Curitiba
150 high students from State College professor Victor do Amaral will be assessed through: a) measurement of body mass index (BMI); b) measuring the level of physical activity by IPAQ (International Physical Activity Questionnaire); c) measurement of pain intensity and verification of behavioral and postural habits for the application of the Body Posture Assessment Tool and Back pain (BackPEI); d) analysis of postural deviations by fotobiometria which consists of making photographs of individuals to measure length, position, angle, alignment, and other properties of body segments.
Individuals enrolled in high school ; of both sexes ; aged 14-17 years;  who agree to participate;  deliver the taile ( Consent Term Informed Free and Clear ) and the IC ( Informed Consent and Clear ) duly signed .
Individuals with neurological disorders, fractures in the last six months.
We expected to find moderate statistical correlation (greater than 0.30), suggesting that physical inactivity (measured by IPAQ) is associated with postural deviations identified by fotobiometria (as lumbar deviations, chest or lower limbs).
We expected to find moderate statistical correlation (greater than 0.30), suggesting that physical inactivity (measured by IPAQ) is associated with obesity (measured by BMI), presence of pain and inadequate postural habits (identified and measured by BackPEI).
Effects of cold water immersion after exercise
Immediate and delayed effects of cold water immersion after eccentric exercise protocol
The participants will be divided into 3 groups: 2 intervention groups (G1 and G2) and control group (CG). Each group will have 20 participants.

Groups:
Male; apparently healthy; physically active
Be alcoholics; drug use; smoking or anti-inflammatory medications chronically; present anemia; inflammation; diabetes; cardiovascular disease; liver problems; injury episode musculotendinous osteoarticular or lower limbs and / or spine in the last six months.
Outcome found: Reduction of muscle soreness, assessed by a visual analog scale of pain (VAS). It was considered the value between 0-10, during maximal voluntary contraction. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: Time points to evaluation: baseline, 40 minutes, 24h, 48h, 72h and 96h post-exercise.
Outcome found (1): sensitivity alteration, assessed by pressure algometer given in kgf. It was considered the minimum discomfort value  in the lower limb with the relaxed muscle. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Time points to evaluation: baseline, 40 minutes, 24h, 48h, 72h and 96h after exercise. Outcome found (2): Analysis of creatine kinase concentration evaluated CK tapes in Reflotron Plus, by a finger prick . Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Time points to evaluation: baseline, 24h, 48h, 72h and 96h after exercise. Outcome found (3): decreased muscle strength, evaluated by means of isokinetic dynamometer, in isometric condition. The value given was the best of three repetition of 5 seconds each. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Time points to evaluation: baseline, 40 minutes, 24h, 48h, 72h and 96h after exercise. Outcome found(4): perception of recovery evaluated using a Likert scale. It was considered the value answered between 0-10, 10 being fully recovered. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Time points to evaluation: baseline, 40 minutes, 24h, 48h, 72h and 96h after exercise.
Evaluating the use of peripherally inserted central catheter exclusively for parenteral nutrition 
Evaluating the use of peripherally inserted central catheter exclusively for parenteral nutrition - randomized study
nitially all newborns in neonatal intensive care unit who have insertion indication of central catheter peripherally inserted - PICC, for infusion of parenteral nutrition and who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized into two groups of 62 newborns, to use of mono lumen catheter or double lumen. The main variable that will be compared in both groups will be the infection rate (based on the criteria of ANVISA-2010 clinical and laboratory infection) and as secondary will be other complications (rupture, occlusion, traction, displacement) According to the sample calculation and considering the possible losses and other analyzes will be included 164 patients (82 in each group). Inclusion criteria will be considered: RN UTINeo with prescription NP indication and inserting a PICC. Exclusion criteria: infants diagnosed with clinical or laboratory sepsis (as criteria of ANVISA, 2010) at the time of insertion of the PICC, RN in which the PICC is not centrally located, newborns with umbilical catheter Checklist procedure PICC insertion scored less than 10, not obtaining consent from parents or guardians to participate in the study. The study period will be between the day of insertion to catheter removal, either by suspension of the NP, the need for early withdrawal of PICC or patient death). At this time the catheter will be collected HMC (in case of double lumen collect both lumens). It is worth noting that the monitoring of newborns will last until 48 hours after the end of the study, they will be considered bloodstream infections related to clinical or laboratory catheter that manifest within 48 hours after the suspension of the NP.
All newborn UTINeo that the intern with prescription parenteral nutrition NP and indicating insertion of a peripherally inserted central catheter PICC for this purpose.
RN diagnosed with clinical or laboratory sepsis according to the criteria of ANVISA 2010;
PICC RN in which the location is not in focus; 
Compare the rates of infection in newborns admitted to Neonatal Intensive Care Unit associated with the use of PICC mono lumen compared to the double lumen , and in the latter , a unique route for infusion of parenteral nutrition. Thus, considering the rate of bloodstream infection of 30% , a significance level of 5 %, an 80 % power of a difference between groups of 20 % is considered significant.
• Compare the frequency of isolated germs in the bloodstream in newborns who used the PICC mono lumen compared to the double lumen . • determine and compare the incidence of complications such as difficulty of progression of the catheter , inappropriate location, clogging, leakage \ edema, phlebitis, thrombosis, myocardial perforation , displacement, disruption, among others, associated with the use of the PICC mono lumen relative to double lumen . • Compare the PICC dwell time for the infusion of NP in newborns who used the mono lumen catheter in relation to the double lumen . • Determine the frequency of the need for peripheral accesses ( veno- punches ), and the PICC in newborns who used the mono lumen catheter in relation to the double lumen . • Compare the frequency and type of complication associated with the use of peripheral catheter , relative to the PICC, the participants.
 A new method of exercise prescription creation for  cardiac rehabilitation to heart disease

 A new method of exercise prescription creation for  cardiac rehabilitation program phase II to heart failure patients

Group I: 20 men or women, with heart failure, with age more than 50 years old and in functional class II or III according to New York Heart Association.
Group I will receive the prescription of exercises according to the ACSM guidelines for phase II cardiac rehabilitation program. The treatment protocol will consist of aerobic  and resistance exercises for upper and lower limbs.
Patients with heart failure aged more than 50 years; Patients Functional class III or II and according to the New York Heart Association (NYHA ) ;
40 volunteers
- Patients under the age of 50 years;
patients With left ventricular ejection fraction
- It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to improve the VO2 peak and anerobic threshold , - It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to better body composition with lean mass and fat mass reduction - It is expected that the periodized model prescription submit a superiority on the conventional to improve the improvement in muscle strength.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Evaluation of the Use of Antiseptic Nose For Decolonization of Resistant Bacteria in Hospitals
Evaluation of the efficacy of nasal application of silver sulfadiazine for decolonization of patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in hospitals
Will be included 50 patients in the treatment group and 50 in the placebo group with swab of the anterior nostrils positive for Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. These patients suffer collection material by the application of sterile swabs for two body sites, namely: axillary regions, the perineal region. These samples will be analyzed to confirm, or not, the MRSA colonization in these body sites. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive decolonization therapy with intranasal application of 1% silver sulfadiazine twice a day, and daily bath with a 2% chlorhexidine degerming for 5 days or intranasal application placebo twice daily and daily bathing chlorhexidine degerming 2% for 5 days. 12 hours after the end of decolonization therapy patients suffer a new collection of material through swabs regions nasal, axillary and perineal to assess the efficacy of treatment. During follow-up, if the patient remains hospitalized, a new collection of swabs will be held the same body sites with an interval of one week after the decolonization therapy to assess recolonization
Patients admitted in the Hospital das Clinicas, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of Sao Paulo; age over 18 years; isolation of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Volunteers carry cystic fibrosis; patients with chronic osteomyelitis; carry infection related to foreign body; topic pregnancy with a live fetus; negative nasal swab for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Difference between the number of patients decolonized by Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus after decolonization therapy in the experimental group with silver sulfadiazine and placebo group. The evaluation of nasal decolonization be performed by culturing for MRSA nasal swabs.
Difference between the number of patients infected by Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus after decolonization therapy in the experimental group with silver sulfadiazine and placebo group. The evaluation of the incidence of infection will be performed by the Hospital Infection Control Committee.
Effects of  Strength Training on women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Effect of resistance physical training periodization  on women with Hyperandrogenic Anovulation

97 women, 45 with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and 52 healthy women, participated in a linear periodization of physical training for a period of 4 months, three times per week, during 1 hour, preceded by adaptation of 2 weeks or 6 sessions and test dynamic muscle strength of 1 repetition maximum (1-RM). 
Age between 18 to 37 years; 
Body Mass Index between 18 and 39.9 kg/m2 (normal overweight and obesity grades I and II);do not practice regular physical activity.
Presence of systemic disease that indicate against the practice of physical activity; presence of disabling musculoskeletal disorders; use of drugs that interfere with the hypothalamic-pituitary ovarian axis and hormonal contraceptives; smoking; pregnant. 

1)- Increased muscle strength in all subjects, verified by comparative analysis before and after a period of four months of intervention with the protocol of physical resistance training.  - Women with polycystic ovary syndrome, because they are hyperandrogenic,  have more muscle strength than women with regular menstrual cycles. - The periodized physical exercise improved body composition and increased telomere length in leukocytes.  2)To measure the outcome, the one repetition maximum (1-RM) test was employed as a noninvasive measure of muscle strength. These test was conducted after two weeks of familiarisation, in which four exercises were performed per day, being separated by two days or 48 hours, for muscle recovery and avoiding influences from other exercises on testing. Body composition was assessed by bone densitometry (X-ray Dual-energy absorptiometry, DXA) and telomere length was measured by Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction.  3) To investigate outcomes, considering a 10% difference in muscle strength between in groups, with 80% power and alpha = 0.05, 120 participants would be needed, considering previously published studies to muscle strength in young women: bench press = 29.54 ± 5,37kg (mean ± standard deviation); leg extension = 41.09 ± 18,78kg; barbell and 16.00 ± 3.13.
1) Quality of life  2) Quality of life was verified by Short Form Health Survey (SF36), Index of Female Sexual Function (IFSF) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)  3) After physical resistance training there was an improvement in quality of life, although this benefit has not persisted after discontinuation of training.
Cardiac responses during rehabilitation in patients undergoing cardiac surgery
Study of cardiac autonomic modulation and pulmonary function in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting and physiotherapy program: phase I of cardiac rehabilitation.
Postoperatively, the patients of LVF normal group (LVFN, n=23) and the patients of LVF reduced group (LVFR, n=21)followed the supervised once-daily physiotherapy program (in the afternoon) of early mobilization as described previously from first day after surgery (PO1) to hospital discharge (about 5 days). The program began with extremity range of moviment (ROM) exercises on PO1 and ambulation along hospital corridor from the third day post surgery (PO3), lasting 5 minutes progressing to 10 minutes for the subsequent days of hospitalization. Exercise intensity ranged between 2-4 METs and the heart rate (HR) during exercise did not exceed 20 bpm above HR rest.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) 
Elective coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) carried out with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). 
Patients who had undergone coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) without cardiopulmonar bypass (CPB) or concomitant surgery;
History of myocardial infarction 
Reduced heart rate variability (HRV)indices during physical exercise  in hospital, but the magnitude of autonomic response different between the groups with normal and reduced ventricular function, assessed by the  nonlinear properties of heart rate variability (HRV), as the complexity (irregularity) of the dynamic process of heart rate were analyzed by indices such as: - correlation dimension (CD); Shannon entropy and  sample entropy; and - Poincare indices: SD1 and SD2 interpreted as a measure of both short and long-term HRV (overall HRV.
Reduced heart rate variability (HRV)indices during physical exercise  in hospital, but the magnitude of autonomic response different between the groups with normal and reduced ventricular function, assessed by the linear measures of HRV evaluated by calculating the following indices: - mean of RR and its standard deviation (STD RR), - integral of the RR histogram divided by the height of the histogram (RR tri) index and - baseline width of the RR histogram (TINN)and - square root of the mean squared differences of successive RR (rMSSD).   
Glucose 25% and sucking gloved finger for pain relief of premature newborns during capillary glucose by heel prick
Glucose 25% and nonnutritive sucking for pain relief in premature undergoing heel lance: a clinical trial
Crossover study with 40 premature newborns and active treatment (glucose 25%, sucking gloved finger, glucose 25% + sucking gloved finger). Each premature newborn will be assessed individually for 3 consecutive days. Day 1: Intervention 1 (1 ml of oral glucose 25%)- 40 premature newborns. Day 2: Intervention 2 (sucking gloved finger)- 40 premature newborns. Day 3: Intervention 3 (1 ml of oral glucose 25% + sucking gloved finger)- 40 premature newborns. The interventions 1, 2 and 3 are offered randomized manner, with a washout of 24 hours. The interventions were done 2 minutes before heel prick procedure


Prematures with gestational age at birth between 29 and 36 weeks complete; age after birth more than 06 hours; apgar score at five minutes of 7 or more; clinical stability with physiologic parameters at heart rate between 120 to 160 and oxygen saturation more than 89%; antecipated clinical need for at least 3 routine heel stick to control blood glucose after six hours post birth
Ventilatory assistance; intraventricular hemorrhage(grades III
and IV)or leukomalacia; cromossomal disorders or malformations affecting central nervous system; disorders affecting cardiovascular system, presence of necrotizing intestinal colitis or hyperglycemia; use of opioids, corticosteroids, or other drugs that interfere with the responses to pain, children of mothers who use illegal drugs, trauma from childbirth as skin lesions, fractures, intracranial hemorrhage, visceral ruptures
Pain score obtained by Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP)during five minutes. The score will be performed in blocks of 30 seconds. Expected scores lower than 7 because the use of interventions to pain relif
Maintenance of heart rate and oxygen saturation in normal levels , reduce time of facial activity and crying
Effect of skin-to-skin compared to the sweet solution for pain relief in newborns who require repeated blood collection.
Effect of skin-to-skin compared to sucrose for pain relief in infants undergoing repeated painful procedures:
randomized clinical trial
The therapeutic intervention will be evaluated to skin contact ( experimental group - GE ) and control is 25 % sucrose .
During the procedure , the newborns ( NB) GE will be positioned in dorsal position , skin to skin contact with the mother 

Inclusion criteria: infants with gestational age greater than or equal to 36 weeks, which present Apgar score
Exclusion criteria: infants who had birth trauma (fractures, skin lesions, soft tissue injuries cortocontusos, adiponecrose, bleeding from the sternocleidomastoid, brachial palsy, facial paresis, trauma of the sternocleidomastoid, intracranial hemorrhage, visceral rupture, bilateral paralysis of vocal cords, brachial palsy, facial palsy, spinal trauma and spinal cord and diaphragm paralysis), congenital malformations, difficulty swallowing, use of opioids in preterm and/or the mother less than six hours, presence of severe intraventricular hemorrhage or subsequent periventricular and contraindications of breastfeeding .
The heart rate will be evaluated continuously (second by second) using the Polar RS 800, during all phases of data collection. The monitoring will be done by means of two electrodes (Red Dot for RN) glued to the chest, in the region of the nipples, of the newborn, and connected to the Polar RS 800. The data will be analyzed in relation to the minimum, maximum and average of each phase.
The state of sleeping and waking and crying are measured from the parameters described by Prechtl (1974): deep sleep, active sleep, quiet alert, active alert and crying. The evaluation of the images with respect to sleep and waking will be made by two trained coders, continuous (second-by-second) at all stages of data collection.
The Pilates method increases respiratory muscle strength and perfomance and abdominal muscles thickness 
Analysis of the thickness of the transversus abdominis muscle and respiratory muscle strength after application of the Pilates method
Intervention group: 26 volunteers started the project, however only 16 healthy women completed the treatment through a program of ground Pilates exercises (8 weeks), with a frequency of 2 times per week, totaling 16 sessions. They were evaluated before and after the training protocol by abdominal ultrasound examination and test manometer
Woman physically inactive for at least six months without any experience in the Pilates method with no history of back pain or other condition which may influence abdominal muscle activity and signed an informed consent form
Pregnant women, smokers, obese, suffering from abdominal wall hernia, glaucoma, respiratory disease diagnosed, individuals who possess some skeletal muscle dysfunction and or respiratory diagnosed influencing the proposal from the study
The practice of Pilates-based exercises changes the thickness of the transversus abdominis muscle, an increase of 1.56 ± 0.88 mm (p <0.001) in muscle thickness was found after the intervention measured by Ultrasound of abdominal wall in healthy women
The practice of Pilates-based exercises changes the Maximum Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) and Maximal Expiratory Pressure (MEP), after the intervention, an increase of 15.73 ± 23.79 cm H2O (p = 0.001) in inspiratory pressure maximum of 8.60 ± 16.43 cm H2O (p = 0.031) in maximal expiratory pressure was found, assessed by Manovacuometry in healthy women
Physical Exercises, neuropsychiatric disturbances and Activity Daily Living performance on women with Alzheimer´s Disease.
A controlled clinical trial on the effects of physical exercise on neuropsychiatric disorders and instrumental activities in women with Alzheimer’s disease
The intervention protocol was basically aerobics (moderate intensity over long duration) and it was composed by different types of activities that simultaneously benefited other components of functional capacity, such as flexibility (stretching), muscular resistance (specific exercises for large muscle groups and with series over 15/20 repetitions according to the volume overload), motor coordination (i.e. rhythmic activities, sequences to be completed) and balance (i.e. games and recreational motor activities with priority on changes on the gravidity center and on direction, unipodal support exercises and unexpected perturbances on systems involved on balance). 
The intensity previwed for the protocol was between 60 and 80% of the Maximal Heart Rate (according the age and monitored). 
Women over 60 years with clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer
Elderly males, elderly without cognitive impairment, with other neurological conditions, limited mobility to preclude the exercise protocol and physical prior participation in other exercise programs.
Instrumental Day-living activities were evaluated by the Pfeffer Instrumental Activities Questionnaire 
It was expected the attenuation of neuropsychiatric disorders and a possible improvement in the performance of instrumental activities of daily life by improving mobility and functional components of these participants in relation to the control group The functional capacity was not included in this study but data were collected to monitor this parameter through the Battery Test Engines AAHPERD adapted for the elderly.
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multi-center Phase III Study of Brivanib plus Best
Supportive Care (BSC) versus Placebo plus BSC in Subjects with Advanced
A Randomized, Double-blind, Multi-center Phase III Study of Brivanib plus Best
Supportive Care (BSC) versus Placebo plus BSC in Subjects with Advanced
Comparison group: 226 patients will receive brivanib orally in a dose of 800 mg once daily. Control group: 113 patients given placebo once a day. All study drugs could be administered with or without food. In the absence of intolerable toxic manifestations , patients will continue receiving treatment daily until unacceptable toxicity occurs or disease progression. If the investigators find that the patient is benefiting from the drug-blind study, you can keep them until the radiographic progression of disease

Voluntary signed and dated written informed consent form in accordance with
regulatory and institutional guidelines obtained before the performance of any
WOCBP who are unwilling or unable to use an acceptable method to avoid
pregnancy for the entire study period and for up to 12 weeks after the last dose of
Primary endpoint of this study is overall survival in the intent-to-treat population. Subjects will be evaluated for tumor response every six weeks. Documentation of disease state will be performed by either computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Progression will be determined based on modified World Health Organization (WHO) criteria. All randomized subjects will be followed for survival.
Time to progression (TTP): Time from randomization to disease progression. Subjects who never progress will be censored at their last tumor assessment date. For subjects with no tumor measurements, TTP will be censored at the date of randomization. Objective response rate (ORR): Proportion of randomized subjects in each treatment arm, whose best response is CR or PR using modified WHO criteria as assessed by the investigators. Disease control rate: Proportion of randomized subjects in each treatment arm, whose best response is CR, PR or SD using modified WHO criteria as assessed by the investigators. Time to response: Time from randomization to the time when response criteria are met for CR or PR, whichever occurs first. Time to response is computed only for subjects whose best response is CR or PR. Duration of response: Time from randomization to disease progression or death for randomized subjects whose best response is PR or CR. Subjects who neither progress nor die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment. Duration of disease control: Time for randomization to disease progression or death from randomized subjects whose best response is PR, CR or SD. Subjects who neither progress nor  die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment.
Comparison between conventional physical therapy and Pilates
Effectiveness of conventional physical therapy and Pilates
The control group (conventional physiotherapy): 28 patients receive physiotherapy session corresponding to passive exercises, active or active-assisted resisted with shoulder abduction, elbow flexion, wrist extension, hip flexion, knee extension and ankle dorsiflexion depending on the patient
No acute neuropathy or lung disease, or also rheumatic and orthopedic diseases associated that prevent them from performing the proposed protocol; those who have cognitive ability to respond to the questionnaire and ability to ambulate.
Will be excluded immediate postoperative abdominal surgery, from the upper or lower abdomen; those who present, at the time of hospitalization, the need for use of noninvasive mechanical ventilation and intubation; those who present thrombocytopenic; those with diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis and who require intensive medical support

Respiratory Muscle Strength: Assessed by Manovacuometry at the moments of pre-intervention, fifth session, tenth session and / or discharge
Length of stay: evaluate the mean number of days of hospitalization in each group and compare them with each other
Immediate effects of manual therapy on balance and movement of people with Parkinson´s disease
Immediate effects of an approach in high cervical and occipitomastoid on postural controle and mobility of individuals with Parkinson´s disease
Single group: 3 participants with diagnosis of Parkinson´s disease received manual therapy, that consisted in pompage technique (suboccipital descompression); release of occipitomastoid suture and ear-pull method. The single intervention was applied during 30 minutes approximately.
Sample size - 3;
Individuals with idiopathic Parkinson´s disease; 
Individuals with uncorrected visual deficit; other neurologic disease;
use of assistive devices;
Static postural balance and limits of stability partial modification verified through measure of center of pressure displacement (COP) in force plate from the mean and standart deviation in the pre and post intervention measurement. 
Improvement of trunk mobility verified through Trunk Impairment Scale and Trunk Mobility Scale from the mean and standart deviation in the pre and post intervention measurement. Partial improvement of functional mobility verified through Timed up and go test from the mean and standart deviation in the pre and post intervention measurement
Evaluation of improvement of fatigue in the legs and feet
Evaluation of clinical efficacy and perceived improvement of fatigue in the legs and feet
38 patients  between 12th and 30th week pregnancy should be applied 2 or 3 times a day, for 4 weeks, this lotion in legs and feet doing light massage. The evaluation will be done only intra-group, without a control group.
Pregnancy  between 12th and 30th week with a history of Chronic Venous Insufficiency with complaints of episodes of edema, fatigue and heaviness in the legs and feet; agreement to abide by the procedures of the trial and attend the clinic in the days and schedules 
determined for the application and readings and Signing the consent form
Use of the following medications topical or systemic use: immunosuppressants, antihistamines, NSAIDs and corticosteroids within 30 days before the selection or considering immunosuppressants, the interval should be 3 months before screening; atopic or allergic to cosmetics history; active skin conditions in the assessment area; skin marks in the experimental area that interfere with evaluation of possible skin reactions (vascular malformations, scars, increased hairiness, nevus aplenty, sunburn; pathologies that cause immune suppression, such as diabetes, HIV, endocrine diseases such as thyroid, ovarian or adrenal gland disorders; volunteers with known congenital or acquired immunodeficiency, relevant medical history or current evidence of alcohol or other drugs; known historical or suspected intolerance to products of the same category; intense sun exposure until 15 days before evaluation; aesthetic or dermatologic treatment in the assessment area up to 04 weeks before screening; professionals directly involved in the study design; other conditions considered by the evaluator as reasonable for medical disqualification from participation in the study
30 days after application of 2 or 3 times the cosmetic lotion verified, by clinical evaluations,  the improvement in dry skin, skin induration and edema aspect of the legs and  feet. Furthermore, the subjective evaluation, found a improvement of the itching, heaviness in the legs, sensation of "burning" in the legs, feeling of tiredness in the legs, swelling of perception in the legs and feet
The product has proved to be safe in use conditions, not observed to none adverse events or referred to during use.
Effect of acupuncture on anxiety in infertility women
Effect of acupuncture on anxiety in women undergoing to in vitro fertilization 
The patients were randomly divided into two groups, the group that received traditional acupuncture treatment during the stages of IVF (Test Group), composed of 22 patients, and the control group, composed of 21 patients, and needles were inserted in areas not corresponding to points of Acupuncture.

For each patient was performed a total of four sessions at weekly intervals (period which comprised the whole IVF process, from ovulation induction to the result of ?HCG). All sessions, both traditional acupuncture and placebo were performed by the same professional acupuncturist. 
Women newer than 45 years, without previous psychiatric disorders, without use of antidepressants and / or anxiolytics and without use of acupuncture before. 
Women older than 45 years, previous psychiatric disorders, use of antidepressants and / or anxiolytics and use of acupuncture before. 
 The primary endpoint was reduction of at least 30% score on the Hamilton scale when assessed after treatment.    
To assess whether the reduction of anxiety reflected in an increase in pregnancy rate.
Insoles for use of assistance for everyday tasks in children with cerebral palsy.
Insoles postural functionality of children with cerebral palsy randomized controlled trial.
24 children with cerebral palsy will be randomly divided into two groups and in the first make use of orthoses fixed polypropylene and the second will use the orthosis in a time of day (6 hours) and the remainder will make use of an postural insole made for their dysfunction.
To participate in the study, the children will be diagnosed with cerebral palsy, ranked among the levels of the GMFCS I and II and have to walk independently without the need for auxiliary resources (walker or crutches).
Children with CP who have undergone surgical procedures or the application of phenol in the last 12 months or neurolytic blocks in the last six months, children with cognitive and visual disabilities that may interfere with the performance of tasks, children with deformities of the ankle is not reducible to neutral and obese children.
Evaluation of the effect of insoles on postural gait of children with cerebral palsy. For this analysis will be performed three-dimensional gait and cadence (steps per minute) the parameter to be evaluated.
Evaluation of the effect of insoles on postural function of children with cerebral palsy.  It will be used for functional scales, such as the scale of Berg, team up and go test and 6 minute walk.
Evaluation of two preventive schemes of dental extraction with amoxicillin in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors (anti-TNF-?) and methotrexate
Evaluation of the effectiveness of two preventive schemes with amoxicillin for tooth extractions in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors(anti-TNF-?) and methotrexate
A triple blind clinical trial, randomized controlled parallel-group will be developed. Experimental group: 48 patients with rheumatoid arthritis of both sexes who require tooth extraction will be divided into 2 groups (Group A and Group B). Group A patients receive prophylactic antibiotic (amoxicillin 2g orally) one hour before a single extraction, while the group (B) will receive antibiotic coverage (500 mg amoxycillin of 8 in 8 hours for 5 days, oral) starting eight hours after simple extraction. Group without disease 24 individuals of both sexes (no treatment) that require simple extraction will be performed.
Before surgery, radiographic and blood tests will be requested and evaluated for all participants. After the procedure, periodic evaluations (24h, 72h, 7 days, 14 days, 30 days and 60 days) are made in order to identify signs and symptoms of infection, inflammation, pain and scarring
Healthy volunteers and subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who make use of inhibitors of TNF-alpha and methotrexate.Participants with aged 18 to 75 years.
Patients that signed the IC (Informed Consent)and requiring simple extractions, exhibiting in blood tests (INR- international normalized ratio less than 2.5 platelet count above the 30.000; Count leukocytes above the 2.000 per mm³ and fasting glucose lower than 126 mg/dL). This study aims to enroll about 72 patients.
Patients that used antibiotics in the last 15 days. Patients allergic to Amoxicillin (experimental group).Patients with dental infection(periodontal abscess or periapical abscess).Patients with pre-existing infection. Patients that used additional immunosuppressive medication and patients who not attended the scheduled follow and/or do not follow the instructions of this study.
We will conduct different  schemes with amoxicillin (prophylaxis and coverage) to prevent post-extraction infections in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with anti-TNF alpha. It is expected to identify all the groups will not develop post-extraction infection (0% infection) and that there is no difference between the groups (n = 24; prophylaxis with amoxicillin); B (n = 24, with coverage amoxicillin) and control (n = 24, without medication). Thus using antibiotic prophylaxis be rationally most suitable for these patients.
Additionally,  evaluations of clinical parameters (pain, inflammation and scarring) will be in patients submitted to different management schemes with amoxicillin (prophylaxis and coverage) and control group, after performing the extractions in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with anti-TNF alpha. It is expected to identify that there is no difference between groups A (n = 24; prophylaxis with amoxicillin); B (n = 24, with coverage amoxicillin) and control (n = 24, without medication) compared to the percentage of clinical events of pain, inflammation and scarring that will be evaluated.
Does the protocol  exercises specific can change the movements of the shoulder? 
Does the training of motor control and muscle strengthening could change the scapulotoracic joint kinematic?
The selected volunteers spent by an individual physical examination to be held in the Analysis Laboratory of Posture and Human Movement (LAPOMH) of Ribeirão Preto Medical School who is to evaluate the scapular movement during the raising and lowering of the arm posture by inspecting the column and specific tests for the shoulder to assess the presence of subacromial impingement syndrome (Neer Test, Hawkins-Kennedy test and the presence of painful arc). Control group: 35 individuals diagnosed with subacromial impingement syndrome, which receive no treatment for eight weeks. Treatment group: 35 individuals diagnosed with impingement syndrome who receive treatment for eight weeks, this consists of muscle strengthening exercises and control of scapular movements, performed three times a week on non-consecutive days. The selected exercises for the treatment group are: Towel slide, scapular clock, scapular neuromuscular facilitation, lower Glide, postural exercises to tactile stimulation and verbal therapist track, modified horizontal stroke, diagonal D1, push up plus, scapular punch, full can, diagonal D2 eccentric, prone horizontal abduction with external rotation. The order of application of the exercises will be randomized. The exercises begin with three sets of ten repetitions with rest 2-3 minutes between each repetition of the exercise. The initial charge will be 60% to 70% of 1 repetition maximum for each exercise due to inactivity of individuals. After the first week, the load will move to 80% of 1 maximum retição. Both groups will be evaluated at baseline and after eight weeks. 
Diagnosis of impingement syndrome; scapular dyskinesis present type I or II; aged between 18 and 40 years; history of shoulder pain lasting more than a week; active range of motion the arm 120 degrees. 
History of trauma; shoulder surgery; deformity in the thoracic spine; instability; complete rupture of the tendons of the shoulder; pulmonary and heart diseases; neurological diseases; index greater than 28kg / m 2 body weight; reproduction of shoulder pain with radiating pain, numbness or tingling in the arm; systemic disease; perform physical therapy later
Outcome found: reduction of internal rotation between the group treated with the control, with a difference of 14.24 degrees. Sagittal plane: Reduction of internal rotation of the scapula of the treated group at 30, 60, 90 and 120 degrees elevation and 90, 60, 30 degrees lowering of the arm, with differences 17.80; 20.46; 20.69; 23.31; 20.15; 18.56 and 18.15 degrees respectively between the groups. Reduction of upward rotation of the scapula 60, 90 and 120 degrees elevation to 30 degrees and 60 lowering of the arm, with differences -6.92; -5.53; -5.91; -6.24 And -6.54 respectively. Frontal Plane: Reduction of the upward rotation the scapula of group treated at 90 degrees the arm-lowering, with -9.54 degrees difference between the groups. Reduction of internal rotation of the scapular of treated group at 30, 60 and 90 degrees of elevation of the arm, with a difference of 11.13; 11.65 and 17.59 degrees between groups.
Outcome found: Strengthening of trapezius muscles, lower trapezius, serratus anterior and rhomboids of the treated group (12.90; 12.61; 13.65 and 11.98 KgF respectively) compared with the control group, with p <00:05 measurements in pre and post intervention.
Evaluation of the use of ketamine medication in the treatment of depressed or bipolar persons
Sublingual Ketamine in treatment of Mood Disorders
Our strategy will be to start with a very low dose (0.3 ml) of racemic ketamine 50 mg/ml (i.e. 15 mg) administered sublingually, allowed to absorb for 5 min and swallowed. Then we considered the interval every 2d. 
Treatment as usual(antidepressants, anxiolytics, mood stabilizers, antipsychotics) will be according to the evaluation of the psychiatrist in charge of the case, but no other medication will be introduced or suspended simultaneously 48 hours after the initial dose of ketamine. Patients will be permitted adjunctive use of benzodiazepines (up to 0.5mg of clonazepam equivalents per day) throughout the acute therapy phase (first 48h) of the study. 
Volunteers who have any mood disorders and high risk of suicide; 16-59 years old.
Volunteers manifesting delusions or maniac symptoms to mental status examination or BPRS; an actual history of alcohol or substance dependence with recent use in the last 7 days except nicotine and benzodiazepines; an unstable or untreated medical disorder; severe exogenous intoxication; being pregnant.
Reduction of the depressive symptoms during the intervention period (maximum 14 days) assessed by the instrument Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) from the reduction of at least 50% in pre and post-intervention measurements.
Reduction of suicidal ideation during the intervention period (maximum 14 days) assessed by the instrument Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSI) from the reduction of at least 50% in pre and post-intervention measurements.
Effects of a physical exercise program with video game and food supplementation with protein on muscle mass and balance in prefrail elderly
Effects of physical training program with virtual games and protein supplementation in the musculoskeletal function and risk of falls in prefrail elderly
The selected elderly will be randomly divided into five groups (Control Group - CG; Isoenergetic Supplement Group - ISG; Physical Training with Virtual Games Group - PTG; Protein Supplementation Group - SPG and Physical Training with Virtual Games Group Associated with Protein Supplementation - PTPSG) for 12 weeks interventions. The SPG and PTPSG groups will participate in nutritional monitoring and receive a protein supplement for use 5 days a week. ISG will receive nutritional monitoring and maltodextrin supplementation for use 5 days a week and the PTG and PTPSG groups will perform progressive physical training with virtual games, with strength and balance modalities, for 50 minutes/session, 2 times/week. The CG will not receive any intervention.
Both sexes; aged 65 years or over; to present itself as pre-fragile; not presenting with an acute disease or terminal illness; no metabolic instability or decompensated cardiovascular disease; do not present untreated thyroid disease; not having type I diabetes; be carriers of controlled type II diabetes, provided they present values ??of glycated hemoglobin between 8-9%; do not use medications that may affect muscle metabolism such as corticosteroids and hormones; not making use of nutritional supplement (caloric-protein); present adequate renal function (GFR
Elderly who report pain in any body region or other region that limits the evaluation and/or execution of physical training exercises; With diagnosis of neurological and/or orthopedic diseases with fixation or prosthesis with metallic or nonmetallic implants, cardiac, respiratory, renal, hepatic, diabetes, endocrine and decompensated hypertension; and elderly people not available to participate in all stages of the study
Improve musculoskeletal function, nutritional status, and quality of life of prefrail elderly.
Improve the balance and reduce the risk of falls in prefrail elderly.
Different Techniques for Lung Ventilation During Cardiac Surgeries

Assessment Alveolar Recruiting During Heart Surgeries
All surgical procedures are performed with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), and subjects will be divided into three groups, randomization will be conducted by random drawing using dedicated software for this. The study is prospective with three arms and each arm will be planning 30 patients. Control group (G1): No intraoperative individuals will be ventilated in volume-controlled mode (tidal volume of 8 mL / kg) with a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO 2) of 50%, expiratory pressure end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 5 cmH2O and respiratory rate (RR) required to maintain PaCO2 levels within the normal range. During extra corporeal circulation individuals remain disconnected from the ventilator and after leaving the extra corporeal circulation restarts the pulmonary ventilation with the previous parameters. At the end of the surgical procedure, the individuals in this group will be transported to the intensive care unit with ventilator assistance for manual inflation, and admission will be connected to the respirator Raphael - Hamiltol / USA. All patients will be assisted by physiotherapy protocol standard unit. The variables that analyze gas exchange will be obtained by arterial blood gas sample in 5 stages: pre extra corporeal circulation (before the patient enters into CPB), after extra corporeal circulation (after sternum closure), admission to the unit intensive, 1st postoperative (24 hours after surgery) and 2nd postoperative (48 hours after surgery). All these samples are part of the routine clinical management and hospitalization in the intensive care unit. Group positive pressure during extra corporeal circulation (G2): During surgery patients are ventilated with the same parameters as the control group. During entry into extra corporeal circulation, individuals will be connected to a mechanical ventilator Raphael, where it will be maintained continuous positive airway pressure of 8 cmH20. After the departure of extra corporeal circulation, individuals will be ventilated with the same parameters intraoperatively, ie: volume-controlled mode (tidal volume of 8 mL / kg) with a fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO 2) of 50% at end-expiratory pressure expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 5 cmH2O and respiratory rate (RR) required to maintain PaCO2 levels within the normal range. After closure of the chest, continuous positive airway pressure will receive an increase of 5 cmH20, totaling 10 cmH20, this pressure will be maintained during the end of the surgical procedure, transportation and admission to the intensive care unit. Individuals in this group will be transported to the intensive care unit with ventilatory mechanical ventilator Raphael, and admission will remain connected in the same respirator. All individuals will be assisted by physiotherapy protocol unit. The variables that analyze gas exchange will be obtained by arterial blood gas sample in 5 stages: pre extra corporeal circulation (before the patient enters into extra corporeal circulation), after extra corporeal circulation (after sternum closure), the patient
Age between 19 and 90 years. Ambos sexes. Cirurgia elective coronary artery bypass grafting with or without associated procedures. Surgery of exchange and valvuloplasty. Cirurgia of aneurysms of the ascending aorta and aortic arch. Pacientes who agreed to participate in the study by signing the consent form.
Age less than 19 years or greater than 91 years. Urgent surgery.
Expect with the recruitment maneuver decrease the duration of mechanical ventilation in the immediate postoperative period, decreasing pulmonary complications and shorter ICU stay, compared to control patients who underwent no intervention ventilation. For analysis of these outcomes, we use an evaluation form that will be annotated data restistência compliance and lung, as well as the time of ICU admission, time of extubation and mechanical ventilation.
Expect with recruitment maneuvers decrease the incidence of systemic inflammatory response in the immediate postoperative cardiac surgery and thus reduce pulmonary complications,compared to control patients who underwent no intervention ventilation. These variables will be assessed by inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1 among them, Interleukin-6, Interleukin-10 and Interferon-Gamma
Prevention program of obesity and eating disorders developed with adolescents from public schools of São Paulo
Integrated prevention program of obesity and eating disorders: a pilot study, randomized trial comparing the effects of the 
Intervention group: 30 girls from five public schools (total = 150) were invited to participate in the program 
In both groups is considered as an inclusion criterion:
being female; 
Have 15 years or more; 
practice more than one hour of exercise a day; vomit or use laxatives weekly
Reduction of Body Image Questionnaire score following phase of the program, and maintain or reduce the score after the maintenance phase. For the study will be considered a difference of situation between times, and/or between groups, when there is an improvement of at least 7% from one moment to the other (or from one group to another) in relation to body satisfaction initial. The statistical technique used to calculate the difference between the means of body satisfaction was the analysis of variance with repeated measures. This is repeated measurements, since evaluations in different times refer to the same individual. Based on the above definitions, for the calculation of sample size was considering a significance level of 5% and a power of 80%.
Increase score of the self-esteem Rosenberg scale. For finding the expected outcome, a variation of at least 5% relative to Rosenberg scale score will be considered.
Effect of Lifestyle Modification on the Risk Factors for Heart Disease
Effect of Different Lifestyle Interventions on Metabolic Syndrome: Physical, Metabolic and Behavioral Aspects
A randomized, blinded, controlled. 120 participants will be randomly divided into three groups: standard Intervention (IP) or control group: the volunteers of this group have two queries, one at the time of entry into the study and another after 3 months follow-up. The first consultation will be standard guidelines for all participants as: physical exercise, self-care and healthy eating. At the last consultation will address the advantages and difficulties in following the guidelines of modification of dietary habits and regular exercise. This group will consist of a total of 40 volunteers. Intervention Group (IG): the motivation for the change in lifestyle will be worked in groups. The meetings will be held weekly for three months, in the presence of a staff member in psychology, nursing, physiotherapy and nutrition. All topics will be focused on major cardiovascular risk factors considered modifiable and which are associated with Metabolic Syndrome (MS). Will be discussed and tested modification strategies related to eating habits and regular physical activity could be incorporated into daily routines of volunteers. This group will consist of a total of 40 volunteers. Individual Intervention (II): The volunteers of this group will participate in weekly individualized consultation for three months with a team of nutrition, psychology and conduct regular practice of physical exercise with the physiotherapy team. Volunteers will receive a meal plan and will be asked to develop an action plan aimed at feeding the aspects that should be modified. During the consultations will be conducted weekly monitoring of body weight and adherence to diet through a brief 24-hour dietary recall. There will also be constantly monitored and recorded the possible difficulties in adhering to the strategies and goals combined in the previous query. Along with these actions, issues related to MS will be developed based on a predefined script. The weekly consultations with psychology will be based on the transtheoretical model of change, tailored to individual modality, which works the different stages of change and change processes specific. The exercise program, followed by the team of physiotherapists, will consist of 36 sessions on a treadmill. Each session will have duration of 60 continuous minutes. There will be 3 per week, where the intensity is adjusted by heart rate (HR). The training range will be between 75% to 85% of maximum heart rate measured in the incremental test of the lower limbs (TIMI), as recommended by the Brazilian Guidelines for Diagnosis and Treatment of Metabolic Syndrome. During the exercise will be monitored Blood Pressure (BP), heart rate and signs and symptoms of cardiovascular changes. This group will consist of a total of 40 volunteers. All groups will be assessed at baseline, at the end of the intervention (three months) and six months after the end of the interventions (ninth month). The evaluations comprise verifying the abdominal circumference, blood pressure, biochemical analysis of total cholesterol. HDL cholesterol, triglycerides and fasting glucose. 
Life style, metabolic syndrome X, healthy education,exercise, food and nutrition education, motivation
Men and women between 30 and 59 years of age with an abdominal circumference higher than 88 cm for women and higher than 102 cm for men and two (02) or more of the following findings:Blood pressure: systolic equal or higher than 130 mmHg and diastolic equal or higher than 85 mmHg; fasting glucose: equal or higher than  100 mg/dl; triglycerides:equal or higher than  150 mg/dl; HDL cholesterol less than 40 mg/dl for men and less than50 mg/dl for women.

Absolute contraindication to physical activity for musculoskeletal problems, neurological, vascular events (intermittent claudication), lung and heart; Presence of a diagnosis of severe psychiatric disorders and / or presence of significant cognitive impairment assessed by the team through the Mini-Mental State Examination; Difficult to contact and inability to return and follow-up, not available to participate in the program.
Reduction of at least 5% in waist circumference at the end of the intervention,in the three intervention groups, measured by abdominal perimeter.
Increase of at least 5% of the plasma HDL cholesterol at the end of the intervention,in the three intervention groups, as measured by the laboratory test.
The physical therapy in the treatment of striae in skin 
Effect of the physiotherapy resources in the distension striaes
- Peeling diamond Group: 15 women with stretch marks on buttocks receive treatment with peeling diamond on stretch marks. The hygiene of the place with cleaning gel and scrub the area with exfoliating cream in 15 participants will be held. Next will be applied 70% alcohol for disinfection of the site. The peeling diamond will be used using the Endermologie machine that exerts a negative pressure -200mmHg, coupled to the pen with diamond tip 150 microns on the ridges to reach local redness, totaling an average of 40 minutes in each treatment session . Will be held 10 sessions of treatment, It is held one session per week, totaling two and half months.
- Group galvanic current: 15 women with stretch marks on buttocks receive treatment with galvanic current on stretch marks. to implement this feature, the skin will initially be cleaned with 70% alcohol, then will be used electrotherapy apparatus and microgalvâniva current generator. Will be connected to an electrode device channel with a positive terminal and a negative. To the negative pole will be coupled with a pen needle four millimeters connected to the tip. Will use a dispersive electrode with aluminum plate and moistened foam (positive pole) fixed at 20 cm of the treated area, the posterior region of the thigh. The device will be programmed to generate the galvanic current with intensity of 100 microamperes. The needle is inserted into the epidermal layer by puncturing quickly and accurately associated with the removal of the skin layer, held for three seconds and withdrawing the needle, the whole length of the groove. Treatment will total an average of 40 minutes per session. Will be held 10 sessions of treatment, It is held one session per week, totaling two and half months.
15 Female university; aged between 18 and 30 years; white race; presence of distension stretch marks on buttocks; presence of type alba distension stretch marks (white); literate and able to respond to the research questionnaire.
Patients in dermato-functional treatment for improving distension of stretch marks; patients predisposed to keloids; patients with presence of hormonal diseases, cardiac, respiratory, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and cancer; patients unable to provide a sensory feedback or skin sensitivity changes; aversion or allergy to the use of electrical stimulation.
Length of the striaes: the striaes are measured with respect to its length, by a caliper to evaluate the in millimeters. This measurement will be performed the day before the start of the study and one day after the conclusion thereof. We expect a 30% reduction of the thickness of the striaes after 10 treatment sessions once a week.
digital thermography: will apply digital thermography by infrared camera to measure the temperature and cutaneous microcirculation. To capture the thermographic images will be used an infrared camera brand Flir Systems® with digital image processing, thermal sensitivity of 0.08 ° C in spectral range 3-14 microns, suitable for application in clinical diagnosis. It will be used for data analysis, Velocity 2.3 support software with automatic calibration. The participant will be instructed not to perform physical activity, not to consume hot drinks and / or vasodilator drugs, do not smoke and do not use Cosmetic products in the skin 4 hours before the evaluation. The images will be captured in a room with ambient temperature of 23 ° C, lack of sunlight and illumination cold light lamps (fluorescent). The participant should keep the place naked assessment in the standing position with feet together, keeping relaxed, with the camera positioned 1.2 meters away from the assessed region. a period of 15 minutes exposure to the skin come into thermal equilibrium with the room temperature will subsequently be captured three images of the region will be evaluated expected. evaluations will be conducted before and after the implementation of the appeals. Expected increase in skin temperature after application of resources.
Exercises to improve posture in 10 to 13 year-old females 
Relation between holistic gymnastics and posture in 10 to 13 year-old females 
 The first stage of the research involved postural assessment of all participants of the study. Anatomic dots adopted by SAPO (http://code.google.com/p/sapo-desktop/)were fixed and the girls were photographed in front view, right/left side and back view. 
After that, nine classes of  Holistic Gymnastics were ministered, including  relaxation, stretching, postural reeducation and strengthening.The girls included in the study were divided into treatment group (22 participants) and control group (21 participants). The treatment group performed the nine weeks of the described exercises, which were supervised by the physiotherapist responsible for the research project. The weekly classes had a duration of 50 minutes.The control group received no intervention or guidance in relation to exercise. 
Age between 10-13 years; female gender; to sign the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
 Sequel of orthopedic, rheumatic or neurological disease; Use of prosthetic limbs; pain during practice of physical activities.
The results demonstrated alteration in the following measures: smaller difference in the length of lower limbs and better vertical alignment of the body in left lateral view for the treatment group, compared with the control group (mensuration: SAPO software of postural assessment). 
The data also showed an increase in flexibility for the treatment group, in comparison with the control group (mensuration: SAPO software of postural assessment).
A study of eltrombopag in combination with azacitidine for subjects with low platelet counts due to intermediate 1, intermediate 2 or high risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes.
TRC112121 A phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center eltrombopague or placebo in combination with azacitidine in patients with Myelodysplastic Syndrome with IPSS intermediate-1 classification, intermediate-2 and high-risk.
In Brazil, 20 subjects will be randomized to one of the following treatment arms: eltrombopague combined with azacytidine or placebo combined with azacitidine. Therapeutic regimen is described below:Eltrombopag: Starting dose 200mg daily (100mg East Asian); dose adjustment min-max 100-300mg (50-150mg East Asian); treatment continues as long as subject receives azacitidine.
Placebo: Starting dose corresponding to the 200mg daily of the Eltrombopague (100mg East Asian); dose adjustment min-max 100-300mg (50-150mg East Asian); treatment continues as long as subject receives azacitidine.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes risk ranked at Intermediate 1, intermediate 2 or high according to IPSS;At least one platelet count lower than 75 Gi/L;Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group(ECOG) Status 0-2.;  Adequate baseline organ function 

Previous treatment with hypomethylating agent or induction chemotherapy for MDS;History of treatment with eltrombopag, romiplostim or other TPO-R agonists;Previous allogeneic stem-cell transplantation.

Platelet transfusion independence during Cycle 1-4 of azacitidine therapy platelet transfusion independence (The proportion of subjects who are platelet transfusion free during Cycles 1-4 of azacitidine therapy). This objective will be assessed by comparing the proportion of subjects receiving eltrombopag plus azacitidine who are platelet transfusion free during the first 4 cycles of azacitidine therapy, versus those treated with placebo plus azacitidine. platelet transfusions will be required if a subject’s platelet count is below 10 Gi/L or if a subject is bleeding or has platelets < 20 Gi/L based on local SOC.
Secondary endpoints compare the following in subjects treated with eltrombopag/azacitidine versus placebo/azacitidine: Overall survival;Disease response (per 2006 International Working Group  criteria);Duration of Disease Response;Progression Free Survival;Time to Progression;Proportion of subjects that progress to Acute myeloid leukemia; Time to Acute myeloid leukemia progression 
Nursing consultation in the monitoring of adults with type 2 diabetes.
Effect of using the method of case management on glycemic control in people with type 2 diabetes.
Participants in the intervention group will receive usual care in primary health care and family will be accompanied by the method of case management for 12 months, which include nursing visits bimonthly, monthly telephone monitoring, home visits monthly, bimonthly group educational activities and consultation with multidisciplinary team as needed (pharmacists, nutritionists, primary care physicians and nephrologists).
 Participants in the control group will receive usual care in primary health care and family nursing visits bimonthly, bimonthly group educational activities and consultation with multidisciplinary team as needed (pharmacists, nutritionists, primary care physicians and nephrologists).
Being patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus;
Both sexes;
People with type 2 diabetes who have psychiatric disorders, which affect the language;
People with type 1 diabetes;
Glycemic control, assessed by capillary blood glucose below 110 mg / dL, fasting plasma glucose below 110 mg / dL and glycated hemoglobin less than 7%.
Risk factors for chronic complications. Will be used to classify the degree of risk for diabetic foot proposed by the Ministry of Health and Cockrof-Gault formula to assess glomerular filtration rate. And adherence to drug therapy
Effects of aquatic physical therapy on pain and sleep in preterm newborns admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit
Effects of aquatic physical therapy on pain and sleep and wakefulness in patients admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit: a quasi-experimental clinical trial

The subjects of the research participated in an initial evaluation to identify the level of pain, the state of sleep and wakefulness and also the physiological variables (heart rate, respiratory rate, body temperature, oxygen saturation). Then, the intervention was performed in aquatic physiotherapy in properly heated water, being the subject of the research immersed up to the level of the shoulders. The duration of this intervention was 10 minutes and occurred only once. The participants then underwent reevaluations in order to identify the same variables of the initial evaluation. Twenty-two preterm newborns participated in the study, with the individual being their own control.
Preterm newborns; Corrected gestational age of 30 to 37 weeks; Clinically stable; Signed by the parents or guardians at the end of free and informed consent.
Patients using invasive mechanical ventilation; Patients on noninvasive mechanical ventilation; Clinically unstable; With recent surgeries; Central and / or peripheral venipuncture in places that prevent immersion in water
During the pilot study, we realized that the premature newborn should perform aquatic physical therapy one hour after being breastfed, so that the cry of hunger was not confused with the crying of pain in the evaluation of this variable.
During the pilot study, we realized that the premature newborn should perform aquatic physical therapy one hour after being breastfed, so that the cry of hunger was not confused with the crying of pain in the evaluation of this variable.
Effects of health education in the prevention of cervical cancer

Impact on education intervention in the adherence to the cervical cancer prevention

 
Control group: 90 women who used the public health service to make the Pap smear will be monitored for annual membership to the examination, as well as his knowledge of the exam.
Intervention group: 90 women who used the public health service to do their Pap smear receive educational intervention in three distinct stages: the first during sample collection, the second in the examination result of the delivery and the third through home visits 6 months after collecting Papanicolaou.
180 women; aged between 25 and 64 years; public service users of municipal health to perform Pap
Women who are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Increased adherence to the examination of Pap smear in the period of 01 years, verified by calculation of absolute and percentage frequencies cross and chi-square test from finding a variation of at least 50% of the annual return of women to health care for realization of the Pap smear measured before and after intervention.
Increased knowledge to the Pap smear within one year, verified by analysis of variance for two factors, being groups (intervention and control) independents and times (initial and after one year) dependents, from the observation of at least 50% increase in knowledge after the intervention in the previous.
Comparison of two surgical techniques of fissure filling with synthetic bone in patients with cleft lip
Comparison of two techniques of surgical access for alveolar bone grafting in patients with cleft lip and palate
Control group: 5 patients with cleft lip and palate unilateral complete will be submitted to the alveolar bone grafting procedure through the surgical access technique described by the authors Boynes and Sands in 1972, involving an incision in the gingival sulcus.
Experimental group: 5 patients with cleft lip and palate unilateral complete will be submitted to the alveolar bone grafting procedure through the surgical access technique described by Lopez-Cédrun author, in 2015, that does not involve an incision in the gingival sulcus.
Age between 9 and 20 years; Indication for secondary or tertiary unilateral alveolar bone graft; Satisfactory oral hygiene; Absence of periodontal disease and probing depth 3 mm or less in the examined sites; Absence of bone resorption and; Amount of keratinized tissue in the anterior maxilla of at least 2 mm (Lang and Löe 1972).
Smokers; Anticonvulsant, anticoagulants or anti-inflammatory drugs; Systemic diseases and craniofacial syndromes; Presence of prosthetic reconstruction in anterior and upper teeth; Absence of teeth adjacent to the alveolar cleft.
Quantity keratinized mucosa of the third tooth distal side in the craving verified by a millimeter probe before and after 90 days the alveolar bone graft surgery.
Quantity keratinized mucosa of the first and second tooth distal side in the craving verified by a millimeter probe before and after 90 days the alveolar bone graft surgery; Probing depth in the first, second and third prong to the distal segment through the crack measuring method with a millimeter probe before and after 90 days the alveolar bone graft surgery.
Pharmacists’ knowledge about dispensing of drugs after completing a training course
Evaluation of pharmacists’ knowledge about dispensing of drugs after completing a training course
The participants will have a training course for a distance learning. The knowledge of these individuals for dispensing of drugs will be measured before and after the course. All activities will be online and there will be regular classes.
In this context, students can access the course platform at any time and carry out the activities provided within the duration of each module period.
Participants must be registered at the Regional Council of Pharmacy of the state where they work.
According to data from the Federal Council of Pharmacy; Brazil has approximately 70.576 pharmacies that dispense drugs. Whereas each of them must rely on the assistance of at least one pharmacist; the minimum study population is 70.576 professionals.
Not to be updated with the professional documentation
Increase of 100% in the pharmaceutical knowledge level for dispensing of drugs after participating in a training course at a distance
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Rating of ventilation with two pressure levels when the patient exhales in patients with severe inflammatory disease in the lung.
Short-term effects of mechanical ventilation with two levels of PEEP (BiPEEP) in patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome
Randomized crossover clinical trial, which will be included patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome who are undergoing invasive mechanical ventilation later, they will be randomized to one of two ventilation mode to be studied. Primarily in both groups will be checked respiratory mechanics parameters, gas exchange and hemodynamics of patients.
 
Mechanically ventilated patients for more than 24 hours; presenting hemodynamically stable (mean arterial pressure between 70 and 120 mm Hg); PaO 2 / FiO 2 100-300; diffuse infiltrates on chest radiograph.
Patients with a history of pulmonary emphysema; presence of barotrauma; chest tube; undrained pneumothorax.
Increased blood oxygenation after 60 minutes period with the experimental ventilator checked by arterial blood gas from finding a variation of at least 10% in pre and post intervention measurements.
Increased lung compliance after 60 minutes period with the experimental ventilator checked by arterial blood gases from the realization of a range of at least 15% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Study To Assess Whether Polypropylene Mesh In Surgery For Cystocele Is Safe And Has Favorable Outcome
Efficacy And Safety Study With Polipropilene Mesh (Nazca Tc) For The Treatment Of Anterior Vaginal Wall Prolapse
From sample size calculation, 122 women aged 45 to 90 years were divided into two groups from simple randomization, where, from the sample calculation and objective of the study, there should be at least 42 women in each group (counting losses to follow-up). Minutes before the surgery was performed for simple random allocation of patients into two groups, thus determining the surgical procedure to be performed in each patient. Control group: 55 women underwent surgical treatment with traditional site-specific correction; intervention group: 42 women underwent surgical procedures using polypropylene mesh (Nazca Tc). Women in both groups were evaluated 12 and 24 months after the surgery to detect possible anatomical recurrences.
Not pregnant women; signs and symptoms of genital prolapse; no acute urinary or vaginal infection; no malignant disease; sign in the informed consent
previous surgery for pelvic organ prolapse with polipropylene mesh interposition; mentally disable; ot sign on the informed consent
Best anatomical results of anterior vaginal wall prolapse of the patients in the intervention group compared with the control group 12 and 24 months after surgery, analyzed by the method Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification System (POP-Q). It is expected anatomic failure at 12 months follow-up of 38% for the control group and 12% for the intervention group. To detect this difference (two-sided test), with significance level of 0.05 and a test power of 80%, 42 women should be allocated at least in each group.
Resolution rate of lower urinary tract symptoms (urinary incontinence, voiding difficulty, urgency and urge incontinence) at least similar between the intervention and control groups 12 and 24 months after surgery, assessed by means of questionnaires International Consultation on incontinence Questionnaire Urinary incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-UI SF) and Overactive Bladder Questionnaire (OAB-V8), both validated for the Portuguese language. 
Physiological effects of passive mobilization in critically ill patients admitted to the ICU
Hemodynamic effects, serum lactate levels and oxygen content of Passive Mobilization of lower limbs in patients under mechanical ventilation admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
Acute intervention study, with application of a protocol of passive mobilization of the lower limbs by the physiotherapist in 16 patients hospitalized in the ICU. Patients in dorsal decubitus with headrest elevated to 30 degrees and passive flexo-extension of hip and knees and dorsiflexion and ankle plantiflexion were performed for 10 minutes with a frequency of 30 movements per minute. Two therapists perform the maneuver simultaneously - while one performs the flexion of one limb the other performs the extension of the contralateral limb. The hip and knee flexion movements reach maximum angulation of 90 degrees. To guarantee the frequency of 30 movements per minute a digital metronome (KORG MA-1) is used. Hemodynamic variables and venous blood are collected before and immediately after the protocol is performed, and the baseline condition of the patient is the control.
ICU patients; 18 years of age or over; both genders; under mechanical ventilation; with a degree of sedation equal to or greater than 4, measured by Ramsay scale; with central venous access (CVA); with prescription of motor physical therapy.
Patients with arterial access in the lower limbs; Grade 3 or 4 hypertonia, according to the Ashworth scale; Polytrauma or fractures not consolidated in the lower limbs; Patients in shock or infusion of high doses of vasoactive drugs; Patients with contraindication to bed elevation at 30 degrees or who did not tolerate the supine position.
The hypothesis was confirmed, with the pre-intervention lactate measurement of 15.41 (± 5.32) and post-14.44 (± 5.03), p value = 0.018.
After the results, in relation to central saturation, the hypothesis was confirmed, with data pre - 71,84 (± 14,14) and post - 75,72 (± 9,19), there was no difference (p = 0.75) . Heart rate and mean blood pressure also confirmed hypotheses, with a significant increase in mean values of approximately 8 beats per minute (from 104.06 (± 25.29) to 112.81 (± 27.36), p = 0.007) and 10 mmHg (from 86.35 (± 11.28) to 95.83 (± 14.94), p <0.001) of the pre and post intervention measurement. The only outcome that did not confirm the hypothesis was the respiratory rate, which remained constant.
Comparative analysis of the strength of the muscles of the vagina in women who know and do not know about the genital region
Comparative analysis of the function of the pelvic floor muscles in women with and without knowledge about genital anatomy
Experimental group (EG): 20 women with pelvic floor dysfunction and pelvic anatomy had explanations. Control group (CG): 20 women with pelvic floor dysfunction and had no explanations about the pelvic anatomy. Women were randomized divided by each group. The evaluation of the function of the pelvic floor muscles was taken by perineometer before and after the intervention (about 10 minutes between assessments) and GC was taken before and after an informal chat (about 10 minutes between the two assessments )
 Women amenorrheic for at least 12 months
Dyspareunia; latex allergy; narrow vaginal opening; history of neurological disorders, severe obesity, signs and symptoms of urinary tract infection or vaginal
Increasing function of the pelvic floor of women who received clarification on the genital anatomy muscles, perineometer verified by considering variation of at least 20% between measurements obtained in the pre-intervention and post-intervention
Increasing function of the pelvic floor of women who received clarification on the genital anatomy muscles, Verified by bidigital review in Oxford scale, considering variation of at least 20% between measurements obtained in the pre-intervention and post-intervention  Strong association between the function of the pelvic floor muscles and the level of knowledge about genital anatomy considering an association of at least 30%
Evaluation of Green Propolis as a oral Anti-inflammatory Drug
Evaluation of Clinical Safety and Efficacy of an Anti-inflammatory Abtained from Active Ingredient of the Brazilian Biodiversity
Safety and efficacy protocol, non-randomized and without placebo usage.
Safety 1: 
Healthy volunteers of both genders, non-smokers, aged 18 to 60 years and weighing within 15% of the normal weight for men and women taking into account their height and physical structure will be included. Participation of female volunteers is conditioned to not be pregnant or breastfeeding.
Volunteers with a history of smoking, alcoholism or drugs abuse, diagnosed as having any cardiac, renal, gastrointestinal, hepatic and pulmonary disease, neurological, psychiatric, hematological or metabolic disorders will be excluded. Also individuals with any known hypersensitivity to drugs who are receiving medications one week before the study or during its implementation and not willing to participate in all stages of this study will not be accept.
The endpoint expected on safety protocols is a non-significant change on activity of citochrome P450 enzymes or P-glycoprotein. The statistical approach for the analysis of potential interaction between propolis extract-fexofenadine will be based on geometrical mean ratio of the observed pharmacokinetic measures for fexofenadine  with and without the propolis extract (EPP-AF). The conclusion of non-interaction will be done if the CI90% for log AUC ratio or log Cmax ratio of fexofenadine obtained with or without EPP-AF lies on 0.80 to 1.25 interval to AUC and 0.70 to 1.43 to Cmax.  For citochrome P450 interaction the same strategy will be done, using CI90% for AUC, metabolic ratio or clearance according the probe (drug) used.  For efficacy protocol the endpoint is set as a reduction of at least 50% from baseline urinary Prostaglandin E2 excretion with the use of higher doses of propolis extract (EPP-AF)  
Not applicable.
Effects of the use of non-invasive ventilation on breathing in children after cardiac surgery
Lung function in the postoperative period of cardiac surgery after use of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
Patients will be randomized into the control group (G1), n = 25, which is not exposed to the intervention with non-invasive ventilation (NIV) only receive guidance regarding posture, early ambulation and cough stimulation, and in the experimental group (G2 ), n = 25, beyond the guidelines will be submitted to noninvasive ventilation with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP-10cmH20) twice daily for 30 minutes, from the 1st to the 5th postoperative day (POD). Both groups will be evaluated preoperatively and 1st, 3th and 5th POD, which will be obtained measures of slow vital capacity (SVC), inspiratory capacity (IC), minute volume (MV), tidal volume (VT), peak expiratory flow (PEF) and maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP). Episodes of pulmonary complications and hospital days postoperatively will also be analyzed.
 Children of both sexes aged 7-16 years, stable, who are undergoing cardiac surgery with median sternotomy during the study period.
Informed consent approved and signed by the heads.
Children who present:
Hemodynamic instability (represented by fever, decrease or increase of 20 mmHg of the reference value of blood pressure or heart rate 20 bpm and severe hypoxemia);
Respiratory function measured by the minute volume, tidal volume, respiratory rate, slow vital capacity, inspiratory capacity, peak expiratory flow and inspiratory pressure.
Number of days of hospitalization in the intensive care unit and hospital stay.
The effect of non-pharmacological measures for pain relief in labor
Review of non-pharmacological interventions for pain relief in labor 
Group A: 43 pregnant women at low risk in the active phase of labor will not receive assistance for pharmacological pain relief through the bath with hot water spray for 30 minutes. 
Group B: 43 pregnant women at low risk in the active phase of labor will not receive pharmacological assistance for the relief of perineal pain through exercise with the Swiss ball for 30 minutes; 
Voluntary without any clinical or obstetric disease; active phase of labor with efficient two or three in ten minutes uterine contractions and cervical dilatation minimum 3 cm; gestational age between 37 completed weeks to complete 42 weeks calculated by last menstrual period or the result of early ultrasound until the twentieth week of pregnancy; minimum age of 18 years old and maximum age of 55 years; pregnancy with single live fetus in cephalic presentation bent; Note greatest pain 5 on the pain scale
Volunteers with indication of caesarean section at admission; use of anesthesia during labor; Tobacco use less than two hours; people with mental disorders that may affect their autonomy; have ingested caffeine in the last 10 hours; use psychoactive drugs; performed less than 06 prenatal visits; use of natural or synthetic corticosteroids; used analgesics least at least 6 hours
The study showed clinical and neuroendocrine reducing pain and stress 
Secondary outcomes found showed no change in fetal well-being through the use of interventions for pain relief, there was progression of obstetric parameters related to labor and development to delivery, reduction of labor time
Effect of supplementation with a synbiotic on markers of the inflammatory response in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis
Effect of supplementation with a synbiotic on markers of the inflammatory response in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis
Cystic fibrosis Experimental group: 25 patients will undergo daily supplementation with 6 grams of synbiotic (fructooligosaccharides, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium lactis) for 90 days. The synbiotic should be diluted in water and taken before breakfast.
Children and adolescents aged or equal to six years and less than or equal to 15 years; display CF diagnosis based on sweat test (sweat chloride ?60 mmol / L); clinically stable for at least 30 days before data collection.
Subjects with fever, trauma, inflammatory diseases (asthma, inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatic disease), psychiatric diseases, degenerative diseases, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, glucose intolerance, renal insufficiency, primary or secondary immunodeficiency. Subject on antibiotics at baseline, hormones, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, immunosuppressants and antihistamines, up to 30 days before data collection. There will also be excluded from the subjects in the pulmonary exacerbations, defined as the presence of at least three of the following symptoms: 1) increased cough; 2) increased production of sputum and / or change in sputum appearance; 3) temperature ? 38 ° C during the preceding week / more than once for at least 4 hours for 24 hours; 4) increased respiratory rate and / or difficulty breathing (identified by hisses, crackles or wheezing); 5) reduced exercise tolerance; 6) reduction in FEV1 ? 10% of the previous value within the last 3 months; 7) school absenteeism due to illness; 8) weight loss ? 1 kg or 5% of body weight, and anorexia associated with a reduced diet intake.
It is expected an improvement in inflammatory markers in the group supplemented with synbiotic compared with the placebo. The inflammatory markers that will be measured by flow cytometry are: IL-1beta, IL-8, IL-10, IL-17A, TGF-beta, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma.
It is expected a decrease or at least a stabilization of nutritional status, reflected by data of lung function, biochemical, anthropometric, body composition and functional marker of nutritional status. The markers to be evaluated are: Score Shwachman-Kulczycki (SK score), pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in one second, forced vital capacity); Biochemical indicators (total leukocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes); Anthropometric indicators (BMI / age, weight / age, height / age); Indicators body composition (fat area of the arm muscle area of the arm,% body fat); Functional indicator of nutritional status (handshake strength).
Analysis of the effectiveness of acupuncture as a therapeutic procedure in older people with tinnitus.
Analysis of the effectiveness of acupuncture as a therapeutic procedure in older people with tinnitus: randomized controlled trial.
In this program there will be conducted two evaluations by a blinded evaluator: one before the start of the treatment program and one at the end of treatment, ie after 5 weeks . In both evaluation times the individuals will have to answer an anamnesi, the THI questionnaire and also determine a value for subjective tinnitus intensity by Visual Analog Scale (VAS).

The experimental group will be termed 
Elderly individuals with complain of tinnitus of sensorineural origin;
Age of 60 years or more.
Present active cardiovascular disease;
Possessing cardiac pacemaker;
Reduce the level of tinnitus measured by Questionnaire Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI)
Checking the subjective sensation of tinnitus improvement, assessed by visual analog scale instrument (EVA)
Effects of a workout program in patients with HIV and cocktail use for over than one  year and treated at a university hospital: a randomized clinical trial

Effects of a program of periodized resistance exercise in patients with HIV in HAART therapy more than one year and served in a university hospital: randomized clinical trial
Experimental group: 17 people infected with HIV and receiving HAART will perform twelve weeks of periodized resistance training (36 sessions), three times a week in an appropriate place to practice exercises. The total duration of each session is approximately one hour.The exercises will be supervised by a trained and qualified professional to guide the exercise. Control group:. 17 people infected with HIV and receiving HAART will receive orientation to keep daily habits.
Be patient infected with HIV and use of antiretrovital therapy for over one year seen at the Infectious and Parasitic Diseases sector of a university hospital. Be older than 18 and less than 60. Having health conditions for the practice of the proposed exercise. Being sedentary. Having availability displacement three times per week for the training local.
Having diagnosis of opportunistic infections in the last two years. Having a diagnosis of liver disease and/or nephropathy and/or neuropathy. Have a history of orthopedic surgery. Have an body mass index
Reduction of proinflammatory cytokines concentrations of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha and increased anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10.
Increase in the number of CD4 + and CD8 + peripheral blood, reduction of viral load; fasting glucose; LDLc, triglycerides and total cholesterol. Increase of HDL-c; number of lymphocytes in the peripheral blood; muscle strength; and improved quality of life.
Effects of two bodybuilding programs in health and physical performance
Effects of two periodized resisted training programs on markers of metabolic syndrome and functional fitness
Experimental group: 40 subjects will be randomized into two training groups (20 subjects each) and attend 30 sessions of exercises in a bodybuilding gym, 3 times a week. Each session will last for 40 to 50 minutes, consisting of 8 exercises (5 for upper limbs and 3 for lower limbs).
Control group: 20 subjects will be asked to remain sedentary, with normal diet, during the same period of training in the experimental group. This group will receive weekly lessons and lectures about exercise and health.
Age between 40 and 60 years; have metabolic syndrome; no regular physical activity or strength training in the last 6 months.
Use of drugs or medicines that are not related to the metabolic syndrome factors; amenorrhea; presence of inflammation or infection; musculotendinous or osteoarticular injuries in the upper limbs, lower limbs or column; respiratory diseases.
Outcome found: Reduction in systolic blood pressure, measured at rest by sphygmomanometer. It was considered the lowest value obtained after 3 measurements. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training
Outcome found (1): triglyceride values remained statistically unchanged, assessed by blood test fasting. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training. Outcome found (2): the fasting blood glucose values remained statistically unchanged, assessed by blood test fasting. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training. Outcome found (3): HDL cholesterol values remained statistically unchanged, assessed by blood test fasting. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training. Outcome found (4): the waist circumference values remained statistically unchanged, assessed by metric tape in the standing position. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training. Outcome found (5): increased muscle strength assessed by 1 repetition maximum test. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training. Outcome found (6): improved quality of life, assessed by questionnaire. Comparative analysis was performed between groups and between times. Assessment in moments: baseline and post training.
Comparison of Cough Assist and Endotracheal Suctioning in airways hygiene of patients in mechanical ventilation
Comparison of Cough Asisst and Endotracheal Suctioning in bronchial hygiene of patients undergoing mechanical ventilation 
Patients enrolled in the study were randomly selected to receive the first technique. Soon the patients could receive isolated aspiration or physical therapy.
Group aspiration: 43 individuals who have been sucked in air for a period of 15 seconds, three aspirations were performed on each indivíduo.Antes the procedure oxygen level was raised to the maximum.
The sample consisted of 43 individuals. Inclusion criteria were patients of both sexes; 18 years; who were on mechanical ventilation for more than 48 hours; with no trauma face and hemodynamically stable.
Were defined as exclusion criteria: history of pulmonary emphysema; presence of barotrauma; thrombocytopenia and impossibility of applying some of the techniques.
Increased secretion aspirated volume checked by means of direct weighing method secretion from the observation of a change of at least 5% in post-intervention measurements.
Respiratory mechanics enhancement without hemodynamic changes seen through the respiratory mechanics of evaluation method directly on mechanical ventilator and hemodynamic cardiac monitor from the realization of a range of at least 5% in post intervention measurements.
Study of methotrexate for the control of chronic inflammation in sickle cell disease patients
Pilot study of targeted-therapy with methotrexate for the control of chronic inflammation in sickle cell disease patients
Twenty patients will recelve weekly intramuscular injections of 10 mg methotrexate for 12 weeks. A supplement of 5 mg folinic acid will be offered per os or intramuscularly 48-72h after each methotrexate administration. Each patient will be considered as his/her own control, and the methotrexate effect during the treatment will be compared with the status before treatment.
Patients with sickle cell disease who are under chronic hydroxyurea treatment, have more than 3 vaso-occlusive crises per year, and who experience a current vaso-occlusive crisis that is refractory to opioids for a period longer than 3 weeks. Patients should be older than 18 years. Patients must have signed the Informed Consent Form.
Pregnancy. Ongoing infection at recruitment into the study.
Primary Outcome at conclusion of the study: Fourteen patients were recruited into the study. The median McGill Pain Index at week 12 decreased in eight patients (27.2%), was nearly unchanged in two individuals (<3%), and increased in four cases (22.5%) as compared to the values recorded at week 0. Half of the patients (n = 7) had avascular osteonecrosis, 5 of whom had a reduction greater than or equal to 50% of the chronic pain associated to this complication. Altogether, 10 out 14 patients had some degree of response to methotrexate related to pain. Besides the 8 patients that had a reduction of the McGill pain index, 2 individuals experienced a reduction greater than or equal to 50% of the osteonecrosis-associated chronic pain despite lack of improvement in acute pain crises. The median number of acute vaso-occlusive crises that needed medical assistance has not changed significantly during the 12-week treatment as compared to the frequency recorded in an identical pre-treatment period (12 vs 10.5 crises, respectively).
The secondary outcomes at the end of the study were: (i) Inflammatory markers: the blood concentrations of only 2 chemokines out of 16 molecular markers have changed significantly at week 12 as compared to the values recorded at week 0, with a median increase of 56.6% of CXCL10 (P = 0.0463) and 47.5% of CXCL12 (P < 0.0001) and (ii) Quality of life: there was 44.4% median improvement in the SF-36 physical functioning domain subscale reported by the patients at week 12 as compared to week 0 of the study (P = 0.0198). This gain was of 96.9% in the 7 patients with avascular osteonecrosis (P = 0.0048). There was no significant change pattern related to depression in the studied patients as assessed by the Beck Inventory.
Efficiency of bolus insulin therapy versus continuos infusion intravenous insulin in the liver transplant 
Efficiency of the bolus intravenous insulin therapy versus continuos infusion intravenous therapy in patients submitted to liver transplant 


 
Group case: Twenty-seven people during a postoperative liver transplant of 24 hours in the recovery room will have their blood glucose monitored. Each hour their blood glucose will be measured, if greater than 150 mg / Dl the patient will participate in a continuous intravenous insulin protocol. In this case, a solution of 100 ml of physiological serum and 100 units of regular insulin, administered by a continuous infusion pump in a 2 ml / hour of flow, will be prepared.

Control group: Twenty seven people during a postoperative liver transplant of 24 hours in the recovery room will have their blood glucose monitored. Each hour their glycemic will be measured, if greater than 150 mg / dl enter the patient will participate in a intravenous insulin protocol bolus. In this case, a solution of 10 ml saline will be prepared and 2 units of regular insulin, will be administered in venous access within sixty seconds.
Patient in anesthesia recovery room due to liver transplant; both sex; between 18 and 70 years old; blood glucose at least 180 mg/dl
Patients with severe disfunction after liver transplant; blood glucose values under 150 mg/dl; death at first 48 hours; double transplant
Control group participants (bolus venus infusion) have showed lower percentage of hypoglycemia (25%) in liver transplant post operatively than case group (75%)
Control group participants (bolus venus insulin) had hospital stays lower (6,3 days) than case group (continuos insulin infusion pump) (13,3 days)
Use of Gastrin-Releasing Peptide in Children with Autism Diagnosis
Use of Gastrin-Releasing Peptide in Pediatric Subjects with diagnosis of Autism.
Study of cross-over, randomized, placebo-controlled, proof of concept for the evaluation of safety, tolerability and efficacy
There will be 10 subjects in total, each subject will receive two brewing cycles. In a cycle is applied GRP 160pmol/kg intravenously, in 30 minutes, once a day, for 4 consecutive days. On the other cycle, be applied saline (placebo) in the same volume as the GRP intravenously, in 30 minutes, once a day, for 4 consecutive days.
Between the two cycles there will be a free interval of 3 weeks. The application sequence (GRP / placebo or placebo / GRP) will be given by lot. All patients will receive placebo and GRP..
Autism Diagnostic according to DSM-5 criteria, as confirmed by the investigator
History of diabetes mellitus; Secondary autism presence or diseases with features common to autism, as follows: diagnosis of fragile X syndrome, Rett syndrome, Angelman syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome and Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, Tuberous Sclerosis; Be carrier of any condition associated with increased acid secretion in the gastrointestinal system (gastritis, gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, reflux esophagitis); History of heart disease; Any guy whose basic medication require dose adjustment or interruption; Any condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, would put the security of the individual at risk after exposure to the test substance; Reside outside the city of Porto Alegre and the metropolitan area; Parents or guardians refuse to sign the free and informed consent.
There was a reduction in scale scores ABC and its subscales after the use of GRP and placebo. Despite this reduction be more prominent with the GRP, particularly in subscales Irritability, Stereotyped behavior and Hyperactivity, there was no statistical difference between the results (p 0.334). After a week of infusion, 5 children had improved more than 25% in the total score of the ABC scale use of GRP and 2 with placebo use, not being statistical difference (p 0.375).
No adverse effects, changes in vital signs or laboratory abnormalities associated with use of GRP or placebo in any patient.
Determinants values of fasting glucose and glycated hemoglobin for the dental complications occurrence in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
Determination of fasting glucose and glycated hemoglobin levels preditives to dental complications occurrence in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus
The selected patients will be referred for care at the Department of FORP DAPE-USP in which will be submitted to anamnesis and complete physical examination protocol-specific research.
In intra-oral clinical examination will be evaluated dental and periodontal status (requiring surgery) and the presence or absence of injury / diagnosis periodontal infections mucosa. O will be evaluated by examining simplified periodontal, Periodontal Screening and Recording (PSR) to classify each patient by their need for periodontal treatment, examining the mouth sextants and classifying the patient with the codes from 0 to 4, with 0 being considered health and a need for basic treatment 2 and 3 and 4 need for complex treatment. Patients who present need for complex treatment (PSR 3 or 4) and at least six teeth in the mouth periodontal examination will be submitted to complete.
Diabetes patients assisted at the Diabetes Clinic of the Division of Endocrinology, Hospital das Clinicas, Faculty of Medicine of Ribeirao Preto / USP (HC-FMRP/USP), and the DAPE Service (Demystifying Dental Care to Patients with Special Needs) School of Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto / USP (FORP-USP)will participate in this study and nondiabetic individuals assisted at the Faculty of Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto - USP (FORP / USP).
 Selected patients will be diagnosed with type 2 diabetes based on the recommendations of the World Health Organization, with progression of the disease at least 5 years, of both sexes, with no predilection for race, over 18 years. Patients must have indication for periodontal dental treatment and/or surgery. 
Type 2 diabetics patients presenting microvascular and macrovascular complications (diabetic retinopathy with vision loss, diabetic neuropathy, diabetic foot + resulting in amputations, coronary heart disease, peripheral arterial disease, cerebrovascular disease, nephropathy developed with the need for dialysis, except for periodontal disease ) patients with systemic or local infectious diseases beyond the mouth, showing malignancy or any other type of disease and drugs that result in immunosuppression, smoking, individuals who have made use of systemic antibiotics in the three months preceding the study.
 Are also excluded patients with diabetes have changes in dosage of medication taken within 3 months prior to dental care.
Oral complications occurrence after invasive dental proceeds (tooth extraction, and simple scaling and root planing). 
Pain, edema, bleeding, and surgical site infection. These complications will be evaluated by clinical anamnesis: it will be performed extra and intraoral physical examination and the research for symptoms using visual analogue scale. It will be compared the outcomes between the three study groups. 
Study on the benefit of the use of protocols in the care of chest pain in emergency physicians of the Cardiology Institute of Santa Catarina
Compliance assessment to the Recommendations of the Corporate Guidelines through a Protocol Approach to Acute Coronary Syndrome by residents in the Emergency Room of Cardiology Institute of Santa Catarina: a Cluster Randomized Clinical Trial 
- Protocol Group (residents randomized to receive protocol guidance of conduct in the care of patients with chest pain in emergency, according to guidelines of the Brazilian Society of Cardiology);
- Control Group (group of residents randomized to not receive the protocol);
All eight residents of Instituto de Cardiologia de Santa Catarina will be included in the study. 
Residents who do not agree to sign the term of consent form (free and clear).

Combined endpoint (sum of points) will be awarded 1 point for each of the channels with Class I and IIa according to guidelines of the Brazilian Society of Cardiology: History and physical examination described; Classification of pain; Electrocardiogram within 10 minutes; Electrocardiogram repeated in 6 hours if no diagnosis; TIMI risk stratification; Cardiac monitoring; Determination of CK-MB and troponin; Primary angioplasty is infarction with ST elevation to <12 h; Oxigen for intermediate and high risk; Use of aspirin 100 to 200mg; Use of Clopidogrel 300 mg; Use of Isordil or nitroglycerin; Use of morphine if pain; Use of beta-blocker is intermediate or high risk; Use of enoxaparin; Use of statins; Use of ACE inhibitors in the first 24h.
Comparison each of the individual approaches used for the sum in the combined endpoint (primary).
Comparison between different types of exercises to strengthen in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee
Effect of strength training in different kinetic chains in pain, quality of life, the pattern of muscle recruitment during ascent and descent of stairs and joint position sense in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee
For inclusion in the study, the minimum age will be 50 years and maximum 80 years.
This study will be open and there will be no masking. The distribution of participants is:
Individuals of both sexes between 50 and 80 years, which presented diagnosis of osteoarthritis (OA) according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology, accompanied by radiological evidence, affecting one or more compartments of the knee, at the mild or moderate, with knee pain for six months or more and bilateral involvement.
Participants will have other musculoskeletal changes, chronic inflammatory diseases such as autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, etc), diabetes mellitus, and neuromuscular disorders such as Parkinson
It is expected that subjects with osteoarthritis, compared with healthy subjects, present greater pain (measured by pressure threshold algometer given in kgf, worst muscle recruitment patterns (increased average EMG activity normalized to each muscle at each movement phase), and greater errors in proprioceptive acuity (estimated positioning errors by electrogoniometer). This outcome will be achieved in the first evaluation of all groups. After training is expected that the subjects of both osteoarthritis groups present pain reduction (measured by pressure threshold for given by dolorimeter kgf). Improvement in muscle recruitment patterns (increased average EMG activity normalized for each at each stage of muscle movement) and improved proprioceptive acuity (estimated positioning errors by electrogoniometer) compared to pre-training data. Finally, it is expected that among the forms of training, the results will be similar in all evaluations proposals. These outcomes will be achieved in the second evaluation after training. 
Improvement in motor behavior (electromyographic activity) during movements up and down stairs, with steps of different heights in with and without osteoarthritis.This outcome will be assessed by the muscle recruitment pattern of (mean normalized EMG activity for each muscle in each movement phase) according to the angular range (assessed by electro goniometer).
Effect of Diet and Omega-3 Supplementation on Markers of Risk for Heart Disease in  Postmenopausal Women 
Impact of Dietary Adequacy and Omega 3 Supplementation on the Metabolic and Inflammatory Markers of Cardiovascular Risk in Postmenopausal Women 
In this prospective and open study, 87  women with age above 45 years and last menstruation at least 12 months prior to this study, who were randomly assigned to two study arms. One group (control) of 43 women received individualized dietary prescription, and one intervention group of 44 women, who were also prescribe dietary, received supplementation with oral Unsaturated Fatty Acids Omega-3 (900mg/dia). All women were submited anthropometric (weight, height, waist circumference and body mass index), biochemical (total cholesterol, HDL, triglycerides, glucose),and inflammatory profile that included C-reactive protein (CRP), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-afa) and interleukins (IL-1beta and IL-6). The intervention time was six months, with assessments at  initial and final moments.
Women with: (1) date of last menstrual period for at least 12 months, (2) age between 45 and 65 years, (3) at least three criteria for the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome (waist circumference 
The exclusion criteria were: (1) presence of cardiovascular disease manifests current or previous, (2) use drugs that affect lipoprotein metabolism (hormone therapy, statins), (3) alcoholic or drogaditas; (4) story autoimmune diseases, (5) history of malignancy; (6) intolerance or food allergy to fish; (7) insulin-dependent diabetes.
It is expected that supplementation with omega-3 supplementation 900mg/dia improves the inflammatory status, by cytokines values, in postmenopausal women with metabolic syndrome compared women undergoing diet alone.
It is expected that supplementation with omega-3 900mg/dia improves parameters of metabolic syndrome, such as improvement of insulin resistance (IR), assessed by HOMA-IR (Homeostasis Model Assessment-Insulin Resistant) calculated by the formula: Insulin (mU / mL) x fasting plasma glucose (mg / dl) / 405, with values?? > 3.6 indicate IR. Thus, the effect on blood pressure, reducing the values ??of systolic and diastolic blood pressure assessed by direct measurement of pressure.
The evaluation of the use of Alprazolam in third molar surgery
The evaluation of the use of Alprazolam in outpatient third molar surgery
A total of twenty patients both genders, fifteen women and five men participated in the study. The volunteers were randomized in two groups (Alprazolam and Placebo). Each patient underwent two surgical procedures, in distinct moments, with an interval of 15 days between them. Alprazolam Group: At a first surgical moment, ten research volunteers underwent the extraction of the third molars on a randomly selected side and received 0.5 mg of alprazolam orally administered one hour before the surgery. At a second surgical time, the same subjects received a placebo pill in the same way and the surgery was performed on the contralateral side. Placebo Group: At a first surgical moment, ten research volunteers underwent the extraction of the third molars on a randomly selected side and received a placebo pill orally administered one hour before the surgery. At a second surgical time, the same subjects received a received 0.5 mg of alprazolam orally administered one hour before the surgery and the surgery was performed on the contralateral side. Neither the patients nor the surgeon responsible for the procedures were aware of the administration of alprazolam or placebo prior to the surgical interventions. Instead, only the principal investigator had this information. 
The inclusion criteria comprised ASA I patients(according to American Society of Anesthesiology; both genders; ranging from 18 to 45 years old and who needed bilateral maxillary and mandibular third molars extraction
The exclusion criteria comprised presence of systemic changes (ASA III or IV patients); history of hypersensitivity or allergies to benzodiazepines; recent use of benzodiazepines; pregnancy; dependency on narcotic drugs; narrow-angle glaucoma; alcoholism and patients under chronic use of sedatives or analgesics
Obtained outcome:  The objective assessment of the medication’s effect revealed that, during the surgical procedures, the ABP was maintained within the normal levels in both groups. The statistical analysis revealed no significant difference in the ABP between the first and second surgical times (p =0, 2047). In addition, the statistical analysis also showed no difference of SPO2 between first and second surgical times (p = 0, 1764).  The average of SPO2 in the preoperative, transoperative and post-operative periods of the first and second surgical times was 98%. Conversely, the median of HR for subjects treated with alprazolam was 80.61 and for subjects treated with placebo was 86.75. The statistical analysis revealed a statiscally significant difference of HR between the first and second surgical times (p = 0,007).    None of the subjective variables analyzed demonstrated statistically significant differences between the two groups studied (e.g. alprazolam and placebo). Nonetheless, the data suggest obtained suggests beneficial effects of alprazolam over the placebo treatment. A self-perception of anxiety was lower when surgery was performed under the effect of alprazolam, before and after the procedure, when compared to placebo. In addition, the subjects reported that they felt more comfortable during the transoperative period (p=0,024) under the effect of alprazolam than under the effect of placebo. The impression of the surgery complexity showed that the majority of the subjects considered the procedure simpler when in the alprazolam cohort than in the placebo group. Furthermore, the subects’ impressions regarding the duration of surgery revealed to be shorter in the alprazolam group, when compared to the placebo group. Finally, pain intensity during the surgical procedure, recorded in numerical pain scale, was lower under the effect of alprazolam than under placebo. Fourteen subjects that received alprazolam reported no pain under alprazolam, compared to nine subjects that received placebo. 
Obtained outcome:  The influence of alprazolam and placebo treatments over dental anxiety and pain were verified through subjective variables identified by subjects in a self-perception questionnaire, developed to this study. This questionnaire was applied immediately after each surgical procedure. Subjects needed to answer six questions about the levels of anxiety, surgical time, complexity of the procedure and painful symptomatology. A simple test was used to evaluate amnesia during the procedure through the questions 4 and 5 of the questionnaire. Patients were instructed to record the pain experience using a numerical pain scale, ranging from 0 to 10. Pain score were categorized as “none”, “mild”, “moderate” or “severe” using previously established criteria. zero score on the numerical pain scale being regarded as “no pain”, 1-3 as “mild” pain, 4-6 as “moderate” pain and 7-10 as “severe”. 
Functional electrical stimulation on shoulder dislocation of individuals with stroke.
Functional electrical stimulation for shoulder subluxation after chronic stroke (AVE)
Patients will be randomly allocated into two groups: 10 patients in control group (CG) and other 10 patients in treatment group (TG). 
The GC will be inactive, while the GT will be submitted to 20 sessions, with an average duration of 45 minutes twice a week for functional electrical stimulation (FES) in the posterior deltoid and supraspinatus muscles and motor cinesioterapia for modulation of spastic tone. 
Patient with a history of ischemic stroke or hemorrhagic for over a year; both genders; aged between 40 and 70 years; presence of shoulder subluxation confirmed by radiography; submit disproportionate hemiparesis with brachial predominance.
Pacemaker; presence of orthopedic disease and / or prior rheumatic shoulder; clinical instability (hypertension and diabetes mellitus uncontrolled); more than one episode of stroke; use of analgesic medication
There was a significant reduction in the degree of subluxation (p=0.05) and pain (p=0.001) in hemiparetic patients after stroke with subluxed shoulder.
There was no change in spasticity, range of motion and function of the upper limb after intervention.
Flower Essences in relieving anxiety during labor.
Flower essences : effects on anxiety during  labor pain.

Experimental group Group A- 82 pregnants.

Using Flower Essences from England.
Do not have obstetric pathologies; Being in the active phase of labor, diagnosed on admission by the treatment team minimum 3 cm cervical dilatation and maximum of 8 cm; term gestational age between 37 and 42 completed weeks calculated by last menstrual period and  or the result of early ultrasound, that is held up to 20 weeks; Minimum age of 18 years; pregnancy with a single fetus alive.

Smokers who has smoked less than two hours after nicotine influence on catecholamine secretion; Bearers of mental disorders, documented in the medical record, which would influence his decision and autonomy; They reported having ingested caffeine in the last 10 hours, thus altering the secretion of catecholamines; Users of psychoactive drugs, which influence his decision and autonomy.
Expected denouement: Reducing anxiety of pregnant women submitted to treatment with floral therapy. The evaluation of the intensity of anxiety be performed before treatment and thirty minutes after administration of the last dose therapy, is the experimental group or the control group using numeric scale ranging from 0 to 10, 0 being the absence of symptom and 10 the worst possible intensity, vital parameters, blood pressure, pulse, breathing and samples of biological material saliva for dosage of hormones cortisol, beta-endorphin, epinephrine and norepinephrine.  
Expected denouement: Pain reduction of pregnant women submitted to treatment with floral therapy. The evaluation of pain intensity will be performed prior to therapy and thirty minutes after administration of the last dose therapy, is the experimental group or the control group using numeric scale ranging from 0 to 10, 0 being the absence of symptom and 10 the worst possible intensity, vital parameters, blood pressure, pulse and breathing and samples of biological material saliva for dosage of hormones cortisol, beta-endorphin, epinephrine and norepinephrine  
Effects of treadmill training with partial body weight support and the one physical therapy method on gait of patients with stroke
Analysis of the effectiveness of treadmill training with partial body weight support and the Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation method on the hemiparetic gait due to stroke
Two experimental groups underwent gait training based on Proprioceptive Neuromuscular Facilitation method (PNF group, n=11) or using the Treadmill with Partial Body Weight Support - Gait Trainer System 2, Biodex, USA – (TPBWS group, n=12), for three weekly sessions, during four weeks.
The PNF group was stimulated using basic PNF procedures and facilitation patterns, being focused manual contact, stretch and maximum resistance during preparatory activities for gait and gait activities themselves. The activities were: waist dissociation in lateral decubitus, sitting and rising from a chair training, transfer of body weight in both the anteroposterior and latero-lateral direction, frontal and lateral gait. In the TPBWS group, we used the Gait Trainer (Gait Trainer System 2 - Biodex Medical Systems, NY), a system composed of a vest attached to a suspension mechanism of body weight (Unweighing System) coupled to a treadmill. The subjects began training with a suspension of 30% in body weight and with comfortable speed; in consecutive sessions, the weight support was reduced and the speed was increased, according to feedback from the patient and the therapist
The sample was composed of men and women, aged between 40 and 70 years, with chronic hemiparesis following unilateral and non-recurring stroke, with spasticity classified between levels 0 and 2 on the Modified Ashworth Scale of muscle spasticity for the lower limb affected; ambulatory capacity classified between levels 3 and 5 on the Functional Ambulatory Category; minimum sequel time of 6 months; absence of clinical signs of cardiac alterations (New York Heart Association, degree I); absence of other orthopedic or neurological impairment that caused gait alterations; ability to walk 10m without assistive devices; not using orthotics on the paretic lower limb; and capacity to obey simple verbal commands. 
Exclusion criteria were individuals whose heart rate exceeded 75% of age-adjusted maximum heart rate and those who had fear of falling while walking on the treadmill. 
Kinematic analysis of gait with the Qualisys system (Qualisys Medical AB, Gothenburg, Sweden) allowed the acquisition of the following angular and spatio-temporal variables: speed (m/s), stride length (m), double-support time (s), inter-limb symmetry ratio - swing time of the paretic leg (s) / swing time of the non-paretic leg (s) -, maximum hip stance extension (°),  maximum hip swing flexion (°), maximum knee swing flexion (°), ankle plantarflexion during push-off (°) and maximum ankle dorsiflexion over the swing phase (°). 
The protocol Stroke Rehabilitation Assessment of Movement (STREAM) was used to quantify motor recovery and motor domain of the Functional Independence Measure (motor FIM) was used to assess functionality.
Use of the beta-tricalcium phospate on maxillar sinus floor augumentation
Use of the beta-tricalcium phospate on maxillar sinus floor augumentation-a randomized clinical controlled trial
Test Group- A sinus floor augumentation procedure will be perform and the maxxilary sinus will be fill with Beta-TCP. After 10 months, the dental implantes will be place and theses implants will be clinically evaluate after 3, 6, 12 and 24 months of the implants placement procedures (n=20)
Control Group- A sinus floor augumentation procedure will be perform and the maxxilary sinus will be fill with Beta-TCP associate with autogenous bone graft. After 10 months, the dental implantes will be place and theses implants will be clinically evaluate after 3, 6, 12 and 24 months of the implants placement procedures(n=20)
Age between 18-60 years old; presence of the necessity of the sinus floor elevation bilaterally in order to perform the dental implants placement; presence of 5mm or less of alveolar ridge bone; good systemic healthy; absence of non-healed alveolar pos-extraction sites
Smokers or ex-smokers; diabetics; presence of chronic or agressive periodontitis; users of medications which alter the bone metabolism; presence of cronic respiratory infections; Chronic users of antiinflamatory or antibiotics; bruxism; chronic alcohol users; drug users; pregnants; history of radiotherapy at the head and neck region; presence of bone pathologies or disease which affect the bone mtabolism
To evaluated the differences regarding the bone disponibility and clinical outcomes of the implantes placed in grafted areas with the association of beta-TCP with autogenous bone or with the use of beta-TCP after maxillary sinus lifting procedures with will be evaluated by the tomographic analysis and clinical, radiographic, and stability of the implants.
To evaluate the biological mechanisms by which the combination of beta-TCP with autogenous bone and the Isolated use of beta-TCP can promote formation of bone tissue. This outcome will be assessed by combining the data to be generated by histomorphometric, immunohistochemical and molecular analyzes (qPCR and Elisa)
A Study with additional chart review to evaluate clinical and biochemical characteristics and disease progression in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB

A prospective cross-sectional and longitudinal study with additional restrospective chart review to evaluate clinical and biochemical characteristics and disease progression in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB

This study will be conducted in patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS IIIB), and will comprise two components. The total number of subjects will be 43 and in Brazil it will be 15 patients. 
1. Component 1 will involve an evaluation of the clinical characteristics of MPS IIIB in up to 30 patients based on a chart review and clinical assessments performed over a period of up to 6 weeks to facilitate scheduling.  
Definitive diagnosis of MPS IIIB; at least 1 years of age (biological age) at the time of written informed consent; understands the full nature and purpose of the study, including possible risks of study procedures; informed consent signature.  
Visual or hearing impairments sufficient to preclude cooperation with neurodevelopmental testing; history of poorly-controlled seizure disorder; currently receiving medication which, in the Investigator’s opinion, would be likely to substantially confound interpretation of the results, or has been on the current dose of psychotropic medication for less than 3 months; receiving a newly increased dose of melatonin (e.g., less than 3 months on current dose); previously received an investigational therapy for the treatment of MPS IIIB or has had hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT); in the opinion of the Investigator, the patient has any other prior or ongoing medical condition that may present a safety risk, interfere with study compliance, or confound data interpretation. 
Descriptive comparison between patients who do/do not continue participation in the study into Component 2 made by summary of demographic data, selected medical history information, and baseline clinical and biochemical characteristics for all patients, after Component 1 of the study conclusion; Description of clinical characteristics, for the subset of patients participating in Component 2,  made by summary of the observed values and changes from baseline over time, after study conclusion   
Secundary outcomes are not expected
Study to Evaluate Imetelstat (JNJ- 63935937) in Subjects with International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) Low or Intermediate-1 Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS)
A Study to Evaluate Imetelstat (JNJ- 63935937) in Transfusion-Dependent Subjects with IPSS Low or Intermediate-1 Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) that is Relapsed/Refractory to Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agent (ESA) Treatment
Imetelstate Group (134 participants)- Each treatment cycle consists of 4 weeks (28 days).The initial dose of imetelstat is 7.5 mg / kg every 4 weeks. If, after at least 3 cycles of treatment, nadir values ??of absolute neutrophil count and platelets have not fallen below 1.5 x 109 / L and 75 x 109 / L, respectively, and no non-hematologic toxicity of Grade 3 has occurred, the dose will be escalated to 9.4 mg / kg imetelstate  every 4 weeks in participants with insufficient response (this includes participants who did not obtain independence of red blood cell transfusion or improvement of hematológicaeritroide (HI-E). The dose of imetelstate will be rescaled for  participants whose dose has been reduced because of toxicity, but which later demonstrated improved tolerability (defined as two consecutive cycles of treatment during which the nadir values ??of absolute neutrophil count and platelets did not fall below 1.5 x 109 / L and 75 x 109 / L, respectively, and no non-hematologic toxicity of Grade 3 has occurred, up to a maximum dose of 9.4 mg / kg every 4 weeks); Placebo group (66 participants) - placebo administration every 4 weeks and supportive treatment, including transfusions and myeloid growth factors, will be administered as needed, with researcher
Inclusion Criteria: Man woman greater than or equal to (
Exclusion Criteria: Participant has known allergies, hypersensitivity, or intolerance to imetelstat or its excipients; Participant has received an investigational drug or used an invasive investigational medical device within 30 days prior to Study Entry or is currently enrolled in an investigational study; Prior treatment with imetelstat; Have received any chemotherapy, immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive therapy, corticosteroids greater than 30 milligram per day prednisone or equivalent, or growth factor treatment within 28 days prior to study entry; Have received other treatments for MDS within 4 weeks prior to Study Entry
Primary efficacy endpoint of this study is the IT RBC rate lasting at least eight weeks. The TI CBR rate of 8 weeks is defined as the percentage of participants without RBC transfusion during any 8 consecutive weeks from Day 1 of the study
OS, defined as the interval from Study Day 1 to death from any cause. Survival time of living subjects will be censored on the last date a subject is known to be alive or lost to follow-up
Swallowing and its implications on nutritional status and inflammatory markers
Swallowing and its implications on nutritional status and inflammatory markers
Retrospective stage: 100 patients will have their records reviewed for verification of clinical data and BMI, and analysis of swallowing tests. Prospective stage: 50 patients experimental group will receive clinical evaluation of swallowing, videofluoroscopy examination, evaluation of food consumption (food frequency questionnaire), assessment of body composition (DEXA) and evaluation of inflammatory markers and vitamins(serum). Control group 50 control patients carry out clinical evaluation of swallowing, food intake assessment (food frequency questionnaire), assessment of body composition (DEXA) and evaluation of inflammatory markers and vitamins (serum).
Experimental group with 100 patients with age equal or higher than 19 years; both sexes; without a diagnosis of cancer; without treatment with antibiotics and anti-inflammatory 30 days before collection. Control group healthy volunteers; eutrophic; matched for age and sex with the study group.
Experimental group excluded smokers; patients with fever; diagnosis of edema; cancer; individuals on antibiotics; nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; immunosuppressants; antihistamines; corticosteroids; chemotherapy; radiotherapy within 30 days before collection of datos.Grupo control excluded patients with pulmonary diseases; cardiovascular; degenerative; neurological; arthritis; cancer; diabetes; smokers; pregnant women and women in the menstrual period.
We expected to find high inflammatory markers in patients with dysphagia, compared with the control group. The markers evaluated by flow cytometry will myeloperoxidase, TNF-alpha and interleukins (IL1, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12, TGF beta) .The RCP is checked by nephelometry. Nitric oxide metabolites shall be assessed by reacting Gries
We expected to find lower intake of vitamins in patients with dysphagia compared to the control group. Vitamin C is evaluated by colorimetric reaction, vitamina D chemiluminescence, and beta carotene and vitamin E for reading in HPLC. We expected to find a body mass index in patients with dysphagia corresponding malnutrition (below 18.5) and overweight (above 24.99). We expected to find patients with dysphagia with lean mass lower than the control group. It will be obtained by Dual Energy Xray absorptiometry (DEXA).
Comparison of Bronchoalveolar Lavage and Tracheal Aspirate in the diagnosis and therapy of ICU patients with Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia
Comparative study of Bronchoalveolar Lavage and Tracheal Aspirate in the diagnosis and treatment of Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia
Sample size was estimated at 76 patients (38/38) that were randomized to one of the study groups: Group 1: BAL-Group and Group 2: Endotracheal Group. 
Both BAL fluid (BALF) and EA samples were cultured. 132 The patients whose cultures were positive (
The patients under mechanical ventilation for at least 48 h who presented with new or progressive pulmonary infiltrates on X-rays plus at least two criteria among fever 
The exclusion criteria were a diagnosis of AIDS and inappropriate
respiratory samples (
Similarity of 28-day mortality rate between the study group in the hospital until their discharge or their death, which one that ocurred first, from an estimated rate of 40% with a variation of 10%. The 28-day mortality rate was calculated through the number of deaths in this period (since the inclusion in the study) over the number of patients observed/included.  Result: BAL group: 25,0% Tracheal aspirate group: 37,8%  p= 0,353
Similarity of the following variables between the study groups:  1. Length of ICU stay (days)(p = 0,797): - BAL Group:    < 14:8 (22,2%)   > 14 ,< 28:12 (33,3%)   > 28:16 (44,5%) - Tracheal Aspirate Group:   < 14:        8 (21,6%)   > 14 ,< 28: 15 (40,5%)   > 28:       14 (37,9%) 2. Adverse events due to sampling techniques: (p = NS):  - BAL Group:     Dessaturation (<90%):     2(5,6%),    Transient hypotension:    1 (2,8%)    Sinus tachicardia (>120): 7 (19,4%)    - Tracheal Aspirate Group:     Dessaturation:(<90%):  3 (8,1%)          Sinus tachicardia:     1 (2,7%)    Bradicardia:           1 (2,7%) 3. Appropriateness of antibiotic therapy:    - BAL Group:  28 (77,8%)      - Tracheal Aspirate Group: 30 (83,3%)     p = 0,551 4. Rate of modifications in the antibiotic therapy:    - BAL Group: 7/8(87,5%)     - Tracheal Aspirate Group: 6/6(100%)     p = 1,0 5. Occurrence of secondary sepsis:    - BAL Group:  20/21 (95,2%)    - Tracheal Aspirate Group: 20/21 (95,2%)    p = 1,0 6. Occurrence of severe sepsis    - BAL Group: 5/25 (20,0%)      - Tracheal Aspirate Group: 2/19 (10,5%)    p = 0,680 7. Occurrence of septic shock:    - BAL Group:10/35(28,6%)      - Tracheal Aspirate Group: 15/33(45,5%)    p = 0,149 8. VAP recurrence    - BAL Group: 0/36 (0%)      - Tracheal Aspirate Group:2/36 (5,6%)    p = 0,151 9. Need for additional diagnostic procedures:    - Second tracheal aspirate:      BAL Group: (n1=8? n2=11) 0/8 (0%)       Tracheal Aspirate Group: 4/11 (36,4%      p = 0,085    - Second BAL:      BAL Group: 0/8 (0%)       Tracheal Aspirate Group: 0/11 (0%)      p = 1,0    - Haemoculture:       BAL Group: 2/8 (25,0%)        Tracheal Aspirate Group:2/11 (18,2%)      p = 1,0 All the outcomes were verified by the investigators through daily visits to the patients in the ward until their discharge or their death, with an expected variation of 10% in the rates between the groups.
Comparison between the analgesics ketoprofen and parecoxib for pain control after gallbladder surgical removal
Postoperative analgesia: comparison between ketoprofen and parecoxib in patients submitted to conventional cholecystectomy
This prospective double blind study will include 55 physical status ASA 1 or 2 patients, undergoing conventional cholecystectomy, of both genders, aged 18 to 55 years old,  allocated in a random and covert way in the groups: C - which will receive IV ketoprofen at a dose of 100 mg and P - which will receive parecoxib 40 mg IV dose. Patients from both groups will be submitted to total intravenous general anesthesia, induced with sufentanil 1 mcg/kg, cis-atracurium 0.15 mg/kg and propofol 3 mg/kg, and maintained with remifentanil 0.1 mcg/kg/min and propofol 3mg/kg/h . In the postoperative period patients will be assessed for the presence of pain on arrival to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), and after 1, 2, 4, 6 and 12 hours, using the analog pain scale (APS). Possible need for additional analgesia will be made with 1mg/kg tramadol IV and dipyrone 2g IV and also analyzed.
Physical status ASA 1 or 2 patients, undergoing conventional cholecystectomy, of both genders, aged 18 to 55 years old. 
ASA Physical Status 3, 4 or 5.
Patients using hormonal or nonhormonal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Cholecystectomy
Postoperative pain, assessed by the patient via analog scale of pain.
Effects of therapeutic ultrasound on the vascular response
Effects of therapeutic ultrasound of low intensity in endothelial function
Therapeutic ultrasound will be applied at an intensity of 0.4 W/cm2, for five minutes. The continuous, pulsed and control (equipment off) waveforms will be randomized by a volunteer researcher whereas volunteer and evaluator will be blinded to procedures. Randomization will be performed by lot, and using brown envelope with numbers of 1 to 3 (Group 1 = control, n=30; Group 2 = pulsed ultrasound, n=30; Group 3 = continuous ultrasound, n=30). All volunteers (thirty) will undergo the three interventions and evaluated on three consecutive days.
Literate volunteers. Aged between 18 and 40 years old. Body mass index (BMI: kg/m2) less than 30. Have no symptoms of musculoskeletal disorders. Not making use of medication (except contraceptives), smoking and alcohol. Have no previous diagnosis of rheumatic diseases, cardiovascular, metabolic, neurological, oncological, haematological and immunological. Absence of psychiatric or cognitive problems.
Volunteers who performed high-intensity physical activity 72 hours before evaluations; presence of inflammatory response measured by the ultrasensitive PCR 
Endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Arterial endothelial function will be evaluated by Flow-Mediated Vasodilation (FMD) technique, according to Guidelines of the American Heart Association (Correti et al., 2002), by brachial artery ultrasonography (Logiq P6, GE Healtcare, GE Ultrasound Korea Ltda., South Korea) using 5-12 MHz linear transducer. The endothelium-dependent vasodilation is measured after reactive hyperemia of 5 minutes of occlusion of brachial artery (50mmHg above systolic pressure). Responses of the vessel diameter to reactive hyperemia will be measured respectively before and after insufflation of cuff. The results will be expressed by relative percentage changes of brachial artery diameter.
Endothelium-independent vasodilation. The endothelium-independent vasodilation will be evaluated using sublingual nitroglycerin spray (0.4mg). The results will be expressed by the relative percentage changes of brachial artery diameter.
Efect of Resistance Exercise Volume on Body Composition, Physical Performance, Metabolic, Hormonal and Inflammatory Profile in Postmenopausal Pre Sarcopenic Women
Sarcopenia: prevalence, disability and intervention in Postmenopausal women
Groups with Intervention: Low Volume Exercise  - n = 10 - (resistance exercise , load to 70% 1RM, eight exercises for the whole body, 3 sets for each exercise with 8 to 12 repetitions, rest interval between sets and exercises 60-90 seconds three times per week for 16 weeks) High Volume exercise  - n = 12 - (resistance exercise , load to 70% 1RM, eight exercises for the whole body, 6 sets for each exercise with 8 to 12 repetitions, rest interval between sets and exercises 60-90 seconds three times per week for 16 weeks) group without intervention : Control - n = 12 (stretching exercises for the whole body, 2 times per week for 16 weeks) All participants underwent the following assessments: Nutritional Assessment: Daily food applied by an experienced professional (dietitian) containing the food intake of two days of the week and one day of the weekend. Food consumption was recognized  and the quantification of energy and macronutrients (protein, fat and carbohydrates). The data were adjusted to body weight to decrease the interindividual differences. Anthropometric weight and height were performed on a platform scale with stadiometer coupled to calculate the body mass index. To investigate the distribution of abdominal fat was measured waist and hip circumference with a inextensible and inelastic tape with 0,5cm precision. To calculate the fat percentage, were assessed with skinfold caliper at four sites (biceps, triceps, subscapular and supra-iliac). Physical Evaluation: To calculate the training loads and maximum strength were performed the one-repetition maximum test (1-RM) in which was set to heat five to 10 repetitions with subjective load between 40-60% of 1-RM and 1 minute rest. Then the subjective load was increased to 60 to 80% required 1-RM and women carrying out three to five replicates. After this procedure, the load was increased and made the first attempt of 1-RM. If the volunteer was able to accomplish two repetitions or unable to perform a repeat the load was adjusted (increased or decreased, respectively) and a new trial was sought after 3-5 minutes of rest. For cardiorespiratory fitness test the volunteers were instructed to walk the distance of a mile in the shortest time as possible. Collection of blood: Blood samples were collected, at eight o
34 postmenopausal healthy women with the last period of menstruation more than a year and age more than 50 years; no hormone replacement therapy; no resistance exercise practitioners or similars; no vegetarians or tabagist; no gynecologic disease; diabetes or cardiac; no regular use  medicine (aspirine or antibiotics) and no alcoholic.
Women period previous of menopause and age less than 50 years; hormone replacement therapy users; resistance exercise practitioners or similars; vegetarians or tabagist; with gynecologic disease; diabetes or cardiac disease; regular use  of medicine (aspirine or antibiotics) and alcoholic.
Expected Outcome (1): Top Improved hormonal blood profile, metabolic and inflammatory, according to laboratory methods (automated colorimetric, kinetic, and electrochemiluminescence immune enzyme assay) proposed by the manufacturers of each measurement kit comparing variations during the initial time and after 16 weeks deltas in percentage relative to low volume and control group.  Outcome Found (1): a better response to the metabolic and hormonal profile only for the low-volume group compared to the other was observed. Regarding the inflammatory profile the groups of low and high volume showed a higher attenuation compared to the control group after 16 weeks of resistance training. 
Expected Outcome (1): Improves Superior body composition of the high-volume group as measured by the indirect method of skinfold caliper with and equations to estimate body density and fat percentage, comparing variations during the baseline and after 8 weeks deltas in percentage compared to the low volume and control group.  Outcome Found (1): There was no difference between groups for body fat reduction after 8 weeks of resistance training.  Expected Outcome (2): Top Increased physical performance muscle strength as measured by the test method of one repetition maximum, comparing variations during the baseline and after 8 weeks in percentage deltas relative to low volume and control group.  Outcome Found (2): There was an increase in the strength greater for the low-volume group compared to the high volume group and the control after 8 weeks of resistance training.  Expected Outcome (3): Top Increased physical performance of cardiorespiratory fitness as measured by the walk test method of a mile, comparing variations during the baseline and after 8 weeks in percentage deltas relative to low volume and control groups .  Outcome Found (3): an increase in cardiorespiratory fitness was observed only for high-volume group compared to the other groups after 8 weeks of resistance training.
Use of acupressure with breathing technique and relaxation for pain relief in labor
Acupressure associated with breathing technique and relaxation for pain relief during labor: a randomized clinical trial
Experimental group: 52 women were instructed to perform during labor, slow and deep breathing during contractions, in between the contractions, release of all body muscles associated with slow thoracoabdominal breathing in a natural rhythm. This group applied pressure with the thumb of medium intensity (± 5kg to 15kg ) on the Sanyinjiao point (SP6) in both legs during the contractions, in a period of 20 minutes.

Placebo group: 52 women were instructed to perform during labor, slow and deep breathing during contractions, in between the contractions, release of all body muscles associated with slow thoracoabdominal breathing in a natural rhythm.This group was applied pressure with the thumb of low intensity (± 100g) with the thumb on the Sanyinjiao point (SP6) on both legs.
156 women in labor; 37 weeks gestation or more; single and cephalic fetus; cervical dilation greater than or equal to 4 cm; two or more contractions in 10 minutes; skin integrates on acupressure point.
Pregnant women with severe hypertensive disease; pregnancy bleeding; early indication of cesarean section; dilated cervix equal to or greater at 8 cm; analgesic drug use for less than 6 hours of admission in the study. 
The average pain score was not different among the three groups at baseline (p=0.098). However, a difference was seen immediately after acupressure (SP6 5.92 ± 2.29 versus placebo  7.60 ± 2.47 versus control 8.50 ± 1.90, p<0.001) and at 60 minutes of treatment (SP6 6.47 ± 2.21 versus placebo 8.09 ± 2.25 versus control 8.75 ± 1.82, p<0.001). These differences were significantly different between groups. 
The duration of labor was significantly different between the SP6 acupressure group [221.5 min (± 162.4 min)] versus placebo [397.9 min (± 265.6 min)] and versus control [381.9 min (± 358.3) min)] (p=0.005); the groups were similar regarding the cesarean section raterates (p=0.255); there was no difference between the Apgar scores in the first minute (p=0.954) and fifth minute (SP6 9.62 versus placebo 9.54 versus control 9.29, p=0.722); use of intravenous or intramuscular analgesic, epidural anesthesia or combined blockade showed no statistical difference (p=0.584) during study.
Metabolic, inflammatory, genetic and satiety response to consumption of monounsaturated fatty acids and fructose
Metabolic, inflammatory, genetic and satiety response to consumption of monounsaturated fatty acids and fructose
20 normal-weight and 20 overweight or obese women will receive 3 meals rich in monounsaturated fatty acids (56% of the caloric value). The meals will be accompanied by 500mL of orange juice (test meal), 500ml of drink based on fructose (control) and accompanied by another 500mL of water (negative control). They will be randomly offered, with a washout period of 7-14 days. Subjects had meals in 12-h fasting and metabolic, inflammatory, genetic and satiety response to diet will be assessed in T0 (fasting) and in T2, T3 and T5 (2, 3 and 5 hours postprandial).
Healthy volunteers; female; non-smoker; aged 20-40 years; normal weight (BMI between 18.5-24.9 kg / m 2) or overweight / obesity class I (BMI 25.0 to 35.0 kg / m2); stable weight in the last three months (less than 5% of usual weight).
Pregnancy; lactiontion; or menopause; infections or inflammation in the experiment days; inflammatory, heart, liver, renal, gastrointestinal and respiratory diseases; hormonal treatment or prescribed drug that affect the digestion and absorption of nutrients; in use of hormones or drugs that affect energy, glucose or lipid metabolism; smoker; history of abuse of alcohol or drugs; unstable weight in the last three months (higher than 5% of usual weight); athlete.
The satiety will be greater in the meal consumed together with orange juice, followed by the meal with fructose, and finally by the meal consumed along with water.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Evaluation of the implementation of school prevention programs to drug use for children and adolescents
Evaluation of the implementation of school prevention programs to drug use for children and adolescents 
Experimental group: Is composed of 1311 students in São Paulo and 681 in Santa Catarina, both divided into four schools each, totaling 8 schools. The intervention consists of applying the Unplugged program (guided by a manual) classroom, by the teacher responsible for the classroom.  Teachers will be trained by the Ministry of Health. The goal of school program is to implement life skills training to prevent drug use through developing “critical thinking , “decision making” , “problem solving” , “creative thinking” , “effective communication” , “interpersonal skills” , “self-awareness” , “empathy” and “dealing with emotions”. Besides to the life skills training it is expected that the student can evaluate 
Schools listed by the Secretary of Education of the state of São Paulo and Santa Catarina; schools that did not have any prominence in relation to drug use by students or explicit traffic around; schools without formal programs to prevent drug use in progress
Student who not consented to fill the pre and post test questionnaires about their drug use 
Outcome found: binge drinking, five doses for men and four drinks for women. It is considered dose a beer can or beer or long neck / a glass of wine / a small glass of vodka or rum or a glass of caipirinha / a bottle of ice
No secondary outcomes were found 
Study of the treatment of children and adolescents with diffuse brainstem tumors using Valproic Acid with Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy
Clinical trial of valproic acid with radiochemotherapy for diffuse pontine intrinsic glioma patients
A group of 16 children and adolescents with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma will receive treatment with radiochemotherapy and oral valproic acid. Event-free survival, global survival and quality of life will be evaluated. Comparison will be performed with a historical group. Patients will be recruited in a period of 2 (two) years) and followed for up to 2 years. Patients will be treated with a chemoradiation protocol already used in our service and additionally will use the drug valproic acid orally (suspension 250mg/5ml). The dose of valproic acid will be initially 15mg/kg/day every 8 hours. The dose will be adjusted to achieve a serum concentration of 75-100 mcg/ml, with a final dose of 10 to 20mg/kg/day.
Patients between 0 and 18 years  diagnosed with DIPG by imaging. Absence of acute cerebral bleeding. It includes subdural hematoma, subarachnoid and intraparenchymal bleeding. No prior treatment with chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
History of recent head trauma. Coma with brain herniation. Coagulopathy (platelet counts 
Survival probability distribution of patients treated with radiochemotherapy combined with valproic acid, estimated by Kaplan-Meyer method and plotted as percent probability versus time from treatment, with 95% confidence intervals.
Median survival in months estimated by Kaplan-Meyer method and compared by a log-rank test with that from the original group that used a similar chemoradiation protocol (HIT-GBM-D); comparison of the median survival with the historical group of patients with the same diagnosis treated in same institution by a log-rank test; comparison of the median survival with that from the group treated in a national clinical trial previously published, using a log-rank test; RANO radiological response (%) of patients 2 months after the end of radiation therapy; progression-free survival 6 months after the beginning of the treatment, estimated by Kaplan-Meier method; quality of life of patients after the end of treatment, evaluated with PEDS-QL scale and expressed as percentile; incidence of severe toxicity, evaluated by NCI criteria and expressed in absolute count and relative percentile.
Impact of preventive child oral health programs in Primary Health Care.
Impact of preventive child oral health programs in Primary Health Care.
Intervention group: in this group, composed of 6 Basic Health Units, the children (sample:325) and their respective mothers/fathers/responsible adults will be attended by the dentists at least once a year with an approach based on the Motivational Interview.

Control group: in this group, composed of 6 Basic Health Units, the children (sample:325) and their respective mother/fathers/responsible adults will be attended by the dentists at least once a year based on the recommendations by the Brazilian Ministry of Health of Brazil and Community Health Service of Grupo Hospitalar Conceição protocol. 
Children born in 2013/2014 in the attended territory of 12 Basic Health Units of the Community Health Service of Grupo Hospitalar Conceição, located in the city of Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil and who are correctly registered and under follow-up medical attention in the Children Program; Mothers/fathers/responsible adults: the person responsible for the child’s oral health care and who follows all dental appointments in the health unit will be considered.
Children with special needs or syndromes; children who left the attended territory of Community Health Service of Grupo Hospitalar Conceição health units for more than 6 consecutive months; Mothers/fathers/responsible adults without cognitive conditions to answer the study’s surveys.
Reducing the prevalence of Early Childhood Caries after 3 years of follow verified by the ICDAS index (International Caries Detection & Assessment System) from the realization of reduction of at least 30% of the index pre and post intervention.  
No secondary outcomes.
Restoration of teeth with different ways of insertion and protection of restorative material 
Longevity of ART restorations in proximal cavities using different techniques of insertion and superficial protection 
Control group: 50 children were treated with atraumatic restorative treatment (ART), protected with petroleum jelly. Experimental group A: 50 children were treated with ART, protected with G-Coat. Experimental Group B: 50 children were treated with ART, using a modified insertion technique of the glass ionomer cement (GIC), protected with petroleum jelly. Experimental group C: 50 children were treated with ART, using a modified insertion technique of the GIC, protected with G-Coat. All children were evaluated after 2, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months by two trained and calibrated examiners to verify the clinical condition of the treatments
Healthy volunteers; both genders; between 6 and 7 years of age; clinically presenting proximal caries lesion; lesion accessible to manual instruments used in atraumatic restorative treatment
Non-cooperative patients; restorations on the selected tooth; presence of fistula or abscess near the tooth selected to the research; presence of pulp exposure or mobility in the selected tooth
Clinical evaluation of restorations: the groups in which the glass ionomer cement (GIC) was inserted using the 2 layers technique should present superior longevity, since it is believed that the placement of a thin layer of flowable GIC may incur in smaller air bubbles formation between the material and the tooth, therefore minimizing the formation of weakness areas, which could concentrate energy and start a fracture, leading to marginal defects or loss of the restoration 
Clinical evaluation of restorations: the groups of teeth that received the application of fluid resin with nanoparticles should have a superior clinical performance than those protected with petroleum jelly, since that in addition to protecting superficially the GIC from suffer syneresis or soaking water, it also would provide a more smoothness surface, which would result in higher resistance of the material, especially in proximal restorations
Protocol training for vaginal muscles
The protocols of training in female pelvic floor muscles

After acceptance of the patient, formalized by the signing of informed consent, participants will be randomly assigned, at random into three groups: (G1) Training of pelvic floor muscles through Swiss Ball (n = 32): pelvic mobility exercises, stretching, strengthening and relaxation were performed in each session in five different positions (supine, sitting on the ground, sitting on the ball, squatting and standing position) following the protocol proposed by Marques and colleagues (2013). They were requested four sets of ten quick contractions and four series of 10 contractions sustained the muscles of the pelvic floor, maintaining eight seconds of contraction and relaxation 16/2. The training will be conducted under the supervision of a physical therapist (researcher), detached, 30 minutes duration, frequency of 2 times per week, totaling 10 sessions, referring to six consecutive weeks. (G2) Training through vibrating platform (n = 32): based on a 6 static positioning program on the vibration platform. The exercises will be held with 20Hz low frequency, intensity P5 and time of 45 continuous seconds for each exercise and rest 45. The evolution will be supine position, progressing to sitting and standing position. The protocol will consist of 10 individual sessions, supervised by physiotherapist (researcher), 2 times a week for 30 minutes; (G3) House Training - control (n = 32): the women of this group will receive a booklet containing information and exercises day-day, along with a journal so they can record the frequency of carrying out the home exercises for 6 consecutive weeks.
The evaluation of the function of the pelvic floor muscles and abomen be made through digital palpation and electromyography before and after 6 weeks of intervention in all groups.
Women aged over 18 years and no complaint of loss of urine.
Urinary tract infection; Zero Degree of contractility of the PF muscles, according to the Modified Oxford Scale; Presence prolapse grade III or IV; myopathies and diseases recognized modification of collagen;neurological abnormalities; Metabolic diseases (diabetes) or chronic lung; Acute headaches; Herniated disc, disc disease or
Check for increased contractility of the pelvic floor muscles through electromyographic activity of surface (method that evaluate muscle function) in all groups.  Observe through electromyography if there are changes in coactivation between the muscles of the pelvic floor and transverse abdominal / internal oblique after training.
Difference of the pelvic floor muscles function, ranked by Modified Oxford Scale, during maximal voluntary contraction before and after the strengthening protocol.  Difference in the electrical activity of the abdominal muscles measured by electromyography during maximal voluntary contraction before and after performing the strengthening protocol.
Effects of an online social network on promoting and supporting breastfeeding
Effects of an intervention to promote and support for breastfeeding through social maternal online network
The mother and child that meet the inclusion criteria and take part in the study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: control or intervention by numbers generated by computer. The control group (n = 123) receive a practical handbook for guidance on breastfeeding, developed by the research team and the participants in the intervention group (n = 123) in addition to receiving the booklet will be inserted into a closed group on the online social network Facebook controlled by moderators of the research team. The intervention will be structured for 24 weeks with the topics listed in the booklet through posters and texts published once a week on the Facebook group. Besides serving to promote, support, monitor and advise mothers on breastfeeding, the purpose of the group is that there are discussions and exchange of experiences between members. Women in both groups will receive guidance by the research team , according to their knowledge about breastfeeding to be evaluated through individual interviews of 10 minutes during their stay in the maternity ward. In addition, all women receive routine guidance, provided by the care team during their stay in hospital, breastfeeding and general care of the newborn. Once a month, until the infant is 6 months of life, an interview for health monitoring will be held, nutritional status and food intake of the mother and child in both groups at that time, the mothers receive guidance if in doubt.
Mothers in the postpartum period that use the online social network Facebook; can read and write. 
Illiterate mothers; under the age of 18;  seropositive for HIV or other diseases that contraindication to breastfeeding; premature fetuses; low weight; twin; congenital problems to prevent suckling at the breast.
Increased frequency of exclusive breastfeeding in the intervention group, for 6 months of follow-up of mother and child through a telephone interview.
Frequency of exclusive breastfeeding in the intervention and control groups in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth month of follow-up of the mother-child binomial through a telephone interview. 
Evaluation of atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) in the family health strategy of Teresina, Piauí
Evaluation of atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) in the family health strategy of Teresina, Piauí
Control group - 180 primary teeth with high-viscosity glass-ionomer, an average of 7 minutes for each restoration. The treatment will be performed at the day care. After 6 months and 1 year these restorations will be reviewed.

Test group - 180 primary teeth with convencional glass-ionomer recommended for atraumatic restorative treatment, an average of 7 minutes for each restoration. The treatment will be performed at the day care. After 6 months and 1 year these restorations will be reviewed.
good general health, present dentin caries lesion in vital primary teeth without pain symptoms or signs of pulp envelopment
Deep cavities, presence of fistula, pulp envelopment or mobility of the selected tooth
Survival of restorations Scores below 3 - Evaluation ART(Atraumatic Restorative Treatment) criteria  After 6 months and 1 year
Lost of restorations Scores above 6 - Evaluation ART (Atraumatic Restorative Treatment) criteria  After 6 months and 1 year
Study of the therapies for dentin hypersensitivity.
Comparative study of therapies for the treatment of non-carious cervical lesions with dentinal hypersensitivity
Six  individuals will be selected with four teeth moderately to severely hypersensitive. In each individual, sensitive teeth will be randomly distributed into the following treatment groups: group 1 (6 teeth) - use of gel with 5% potassium nitrate and 2% sodium fluoride (KNO3NaF) as active ingredient, once a week until remission of pain; group 2 (6 teeth) - use of KNO3NaF and immediate restoration with composite resin Filtek Z250 (FZ250); group 3 ( 6 teeth) – use of KNO3NaF once a week until remission of pain and restoration with FZ250; group 4 ( 6 teeth) - restoration with FZ250. The assessment periods will 0, 7, 30, 90 and 180 days
The volunteers: they will be included with age 18 years or older,  enrolled in the clinics of dentistry UFPI having at least 20 dental elements.
Non-carious lesions: at least four lesions whose sensitivity is classified by the patient for moderate to severe after administration of a air, and tooth wear between 2 and 4. These teeth must have an antagonist tooth.
The patient: will be excluded  people who have made periodontal treatment and/or hypersensitivity treatment in the last six months, patients with bruxism in the active phase.
Non-carious lesions: teeth with very deep lesions, when a ruber dam isolation is not possible and those that have been previously restored.
It is expected that one of the interventions is more effective in controlling dentinal hypersensitivity not carious lesions. The outcome will be assessed by analyzing the presence of pain induce by an air jet against the site where the intervention was carried out.
It is expected that all interventions are effective up to 6 months of intervention.
Effects of different cognitive behavioral therapies to social anxiety disorder using different measures 
Effects of different cognitive behavioral therapies to social anxiety on memory, attention and galvanic skin response

Treatments: group cognitive behavioral therapy, individual trial-based cognitive therapy, control intervention.
Experimental groups: this study has two experimental groups. The group 1 has 30 individuals with social anxiety disorder that receive 16 sessions of group cognitive behavioral therapy. Each session lasts one hour and half. The group 2 has 30 individuals with social anxiety disorder that receive 16 individual sessions of trial-based cognitive therapy. Each session lasts one hour and half.
There are different inclusion criterias for participants with social anxiety disorder and healthy individuals. Inclusion criteria for participants with social anxiety disorder: individuals aging 18 to 45 years old; both gender; with scores equal or higher than 19 points at social phobia inventory; and confirmation of social anxiety disorder as the primary diagnoses. Inclusion criterias for healthy individuals: healthy volunteers aging 18 to 45 years old; both gender; that do not present social anxiety disorder ou any other mental disorder. 
Age under 18 and older than 45 years old; psychotic symptoms and accentuated cognitive deficits; and the presence of social anxiety disorder as a secondary diagnoses to other disorders and conditions; individuals in  psychotherapy treatment until the beggining of the interventions and that did not want to interrupt the treatment in progress. Exclusion criterias to comparison healthy group: any psychiatric condition, beside all the exclusion criterias described above. 
Reduction of social anxiety symptoms at participants randomized to trial-based cognitive therapy or group cognitive behavioral therapy compared to control intervention (no treatment). It is expected a reduction of social phobia inventory scores (primary outcome measure) to lower than 25 points after 16 sessions of therapy.
Reduction of depression symptoms measured by beck depression inventory of participants randomized to treatment conditions. It is expected that these participants present scores lower than 15 points after 16 sessions of therapy (individual or group format) compared to control intervention (no treatment). It is expected too a reduction of attentional bias of treated participants, measured by reaction time to emocional words at emotional stroop task; and a reduction at false memories, measured by the response at deese-roediger mcdermott paradigm, compared to control intervention.
Effect of green tea and metformin on excess of sugar on the blood of obese individuals with pre-diabetes
Effect of green tea extract and metformin on insulin resistance in obese individuals with pre-diabetes
Experimental groups: A. Green Tea Group: 35 obese patients will consume two capsules containing 500 mg of green tea extract (
Obese individuals (fat
Volunteers with thyroid disorders; diabetes; renal and hepatic diseases; pregnant women; nursing; in hormone replacement; under treatment for weight control; those who are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Changing the parameters ??of glycemic control  assessed by fasting plasma glucose through enzymatic colorimetric method and glycated hemoglobin by turbidity method, based on the statement of change in pre- and post- intervention measurements to identify them as risk factors for type 2 diabetes mellitus in this population
Changes in other risk factors for type 2 diabetes: the body composition assessed by densitometry (DEXA) from the realization of a range of at least 2% in pre and post intervention measurements; lipid profile checked the levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol and fractions through enzymatic methods and enzymatic colorimetric from the realization of a range of at least 1% in the pre and post intervention measurements; inflammatory status evaluated by the change in tumor necrosis factor levels, interleukin 6, interleukin 10, leptin, insulin and adiponectin levels being determined by means of a high sensitivity panel to humans (Milliplex, Millipore Corp., Missouri, USA) using Luminex xMAP technology (Multiple Analyte Profiling) which shall be considered an outcome occurred if there is any negative change; antioxidant activities verified by analyzing the antioxidant capacity of plasma and activity of antioxidant enzymes, which will be considered as an outcome occurred if there is any negative change
Pain reduction compared postoperative period with the use of morphine versus methadone during anesthesia in cardiac surgery.
Postoperative analgesia comparing the Methadone versus Morphine during anesthetic induction in cardiac surgery
All study participants (intervention group and control group will undergo the same anesthetic procedure described below: anesthesia induction is performed with sufentanil 0.5 micrograms per kilogram of weight and a bolus of 10 microgram as needed, and etomidate 0.2 milligrams per kilogram body weight and rocurânio 0.1 milligrams per kilogram of body weight (at least 0.6 milligrams per kilogram).Anesthesia will be maintained with doses of 0.25 to 0.5 micrograms per kilogram per hour of sufentanil and 0.5 to 1 inspired concentration of sevoflurane.At the end of anesthesia will be administered intravenously, in the intervention group (treated - methadone) 0.1 milligrams per kilogram of methadone weight. In the control group (no treatment - morphine) is administered 0.1 milligrams per kilogram of morphine weight. In each group there will be 40 patients, totaling 80 participants in the study; ie 40 patients who will receive a methadone dose (treatment group - intervention) at the end of surgery and 40 who will receive equivalent dose of morphine (control group - no treatment).The doses of anesthetic drugs for induction and maintenance of anesthesia were calculated by reference to the ideal weight and the corrected weight of the patient. According to the criteria of the medical and nursing staff of this unit, after extubation, where appropriate, will be administered 0.03 milligrams per kilogram of morphine weight intravenously, respecting the limit of 10 milligrams per kilogram of weight as an analgesic in the post operatively. Will be measured by the nursing staff, the scale of pain after 12, 24 and 36 hours after surgery to compare analgesia and adverse effects between the groups.
Volunteers undergoing cardiac surgery myocardial revascularization without cardiopulmonary bypass; Both genders; ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologist) III or IV;
Volunteers with a history of illicit drug use; allergy to morphine or methadone; post-operative intubation than 48 hours.
Postoperative analgesia measured by the scale of pain and analgesic rescue doses. The pain will be measured by visual analogue scale 12, 24 and 36 hours after surgery.
 Adverse effects of anesthetic and analgesic used.
Effects of electrical stimulation and ventilatory muscle training in patients with kidney disease on hemodialysis
Effects of functional electrical stimulation and inspiratory muscle training on quality of life and functional capacity of patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis: a randomized clinical trial
Functional Electrical Stimulation (n=15): FES will be applied at 15 Hz, 0.4 ms pulse width, 10-s contraction time, 50-s resting time and maximum tolerable intensity, 3 sessions per week, for 12 weeks. Extensor knee muscle will be stimulated.

 Inspiratory muscle training (n=15): IMT will be performed for 12 weeks, 5 sessions per week, with an intensity of 30% of maximal inspiratory pressure
Patients with ESRD undergoing hemodialysis more than 3 months; Urea clearance during hemodialysis (Kt / V) 
Patients with recent stroke, disabling osteoarticular or musculoskeletal disease, uncontrolled hypertension (SBP 
Functional capacity assessed by distance walked in 6-Minute Walk Test
Hand-grip strength by dynamometry
Effect of Balance Training in Older Adults 
Effect of a Perturbation-based Balance Training Program on the Reactive Neuromuscular Control in Older Adults
Randomized clinical trial, two-arms, randomized, envolving forty-six healthy women,with age between 65 and 80 years old who are community-dwelling. The volunteers will be randomly divided into two groups-Control Group, (CG, n=23) and exercise group (EG, n=23). The participants will be classified in quartiles according to Timed-up 
Healthy older, between 65 and 80 years, living in the community.
Presence of cardiovascular, neurological or vestibular diseases. Presence of musculoskeletal problems that interferes with static or dynamic balance. Peripheral neuropathies. Use of medication for central nervous system. Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE) score less than 19.
Muscle activation: will be acquired through surface electromyography of the lower limb muscles during body disturbance. The following variables will be obtained: electromyographic muscle reaction time, time to peak and average muscle activity. Displacement of center of pressure: will be obtained through a force plate during the body disturbance. The following variables will be obtained: anteroposterior and posteroanterior displacement (in centimeters) and the total area of displacement (in centimeters). The data will be assessed before and after six weeks of balance training.
Agility and functional mobility: will be obtained through the time in seconds for testing of lift, walk and sit (Timed up and Go test). Anterior stability limit: will be evaluated by means of Functional Reach test, which detects in centimeters the anterior voluntary body displacement. Central activation failure: is obtained by maximum voluntary contraction associated with electro stimulation of the ankle muscles, measured by means of a load cell. The data will be assessed before and after six weeks of balance training.
The use of a strategy to teach the bed bath
The simulations of use in bath education in bed
The 58 students who composed the study sample participated in the exhibition dialogic class over the bath and at the end of the statement by the researcher conducting the bed bath on the mannequin low-fidelity, then held randomization of students through the coin toss, in which the Control Group, consisted of 28 and participated in the skill training in which they individually performed the technique in the low allegiances dummy. Simulated group was formed by 30 students, which made the bed bath in a simulated scenario with dummy - actor, scenario which was prepared as in real environment and began with the presentation of a clinical case. In both strategies the students individually performed the care and had an average of 30 minutes for their achievement. At the end all students of the sham group participated in the debriefing, which aimed to discuss with students to participate in the simulation experience.
Be enrolled and studying the semiotics of discipline of the 5th graduation period in Nursing
Be technical or auxiliary nursing; have previously performed the bathing care in bed
Difference in mean both the cognitive knowledge acquisition and retention throughout the study time, determined by the test writing of the bed-bath.
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Feet reflex massage in older womem
Effects of podal reflexology massage in older womem
Intervention group: 25 older women, independents and without cognition alterations,  will receive podal reflexology massage once a week for 45 minutes in each session, for 8 weeks. 
Control group: 25 older women, independents and without cognition alterations, will not receive the massage during the 8-week experimental period (
Independent older women, 60 years and over; residents in the Curitiba city and metropolitan area, Parana, Brazil; without cognitive impairment according to the Mini mental state examination
Volunteers with diagnosis of the following disease: neurological, trauma-orthopedic, cardiac, respiratory, kidney, liver, osteoporosis, decompensated diabetes, decompensated endocrine and arterial hypertension; and voluntary unavailable to participate in any stages of the assessments.
Improvement in sleep quality assessed by the Pittsburgh Index; Improvement in quality of life assessed by the Short Form-36 (SF-36) quality of life scale; Improvement in depressive symptoms checked by the Geriatric Depression Scale 30.
Improvement in postural balance assessed by functional mobility (Timed Up and Go test) and the gait speed test (10 meters); Improvement in foot sensibility assessed by esthesiometer; Improvement in fear of falling assessed by tFalls Efficacy Scale – International Brasil.
Organic responses to a videogame session in subjects affected by stroke
Acute Physiological Responses to Virtual Reality Games in Adults Affected by Stroke
One group (crossover design) with 12 subjects from both genders who were at the chronic stage (more than 6 months) after a stroke. The group will be submitted to 3 experimental sessions, conducted at a random order, and composed by 1 control session and 2 videogames sessions.
Control session: seated rest during 40 minutes.
Both genders, aged over 30 years, having suffered a single stroke  in more than 6 months ago.

Obesity greater than grade II; presence of cognitive deficit; presence of cardiovascular disease that precludes exercises; inability to walk on a treadmill.
Mean heart rate during virtual reality games measured by heart rate monitors and achieving values between the anerobic threshold and the respiratory compensation point  
Mean oxygen consuption during virtual reality games measured by metabolic cart and achieving values between the anerobic threshold and the respiratory compensation point 
Sealing caries lesion as alternative for management in primary teeth
Longitudinal evaluation of occlusal caries lesions sealed compared to conventional restorative treatment in primary teeth
Experimental Group: 17 children received the application of resin based pit and fissure sealants on dental caries, without removing any carious tissue. Active Control Group: 19 children received restoration with light cured composite resin after removal of tissue affected by dental caries. All children were evaluated after 6, 12 and 18 months by a trained and calibrated examiner for checking the clinical and radiograph condition of the treatments 
Healthy volunteers; between 4 and 9 years old; both genders; with one primary molar with occlusal carious lesion reaching dentine with an opening in enamel not wider than 3 mm diameter; radiographically the lesion should be in the outer half of dentine. 
Patients who were not colaborators; restorations on the selected tooth.  
Radiographic evaluation of lesion -  absence of  caries progression of  in 100% of cases in both groups
The exfoliated teeth were collected for evaluation of the morphology of the adhesive interface by analysis in Scanning Electron Microscopy.It was visualized formation of hybrid layer, with the presence of adhesive system  tags in affected dentin in control group and areas not filled with adhesive system in the interface tooth/restoration for experimental group. 
Resin restorations assessment made ??by applying differently the adhesive system
Adhesion of composite resin direct restorations with different protocols of adhesive system application – a clinical study
Each participant (n=50) will receive 3 composite restorations in 3 posterior teeth. Each participant will have a tooth restored in technical 1 (total etching), which is the control group, a tooth restored with the technical 2 (selective conditioning in enamel) and a tooth restored with the technical 3 (self-etching). Patients will be clinically evaluated at 7 days, 6 months and 18 months.
Age between 18 and 60 years; both genders; need for Class I and II restorations in premolars and/or molars, presence of at least three dental elements to be restored whose antagonist teeth are present; presence of at least 20 teeth in occlusion.
Holders or removable orthodontic appliances; holders of bruxism; pregnant or breast-feeding.
Presence of marginal discoloration in composite restorations clinical assessment (visual inspection), considering a variation of at least 5% in the measurements after the intervention (7 days) and 18 months.
Presence of marginal discoloration, fractures and retention, marginal desadaptation, postoperative sensitivity and tooth decay recurrence will be evaluated in the composite restorations clinical assessment (visual inspection), considering a variation of at least 5% in the measurements after the intervention (7 days) and 18 months.
Evaluation of eyes implanted with corneal inlays for correction of presbyopia
Evaluation of Presbia for the treatment of presbyopia
Intracorneal inlay to correction presbyopia in 31 patients..Follow up of one year. Patients were followed according to a clinical protocol including refraction, anterior segment imaging analysis (Oculiser, Alcon) and wavefront evaluation (Nidek OPD  Scan).
Age between 45 years and 60 years, both gender, uncorrect near visual acuity (UNVA) worse than J4, uncorrect distance visual acuity (UDVA) better than 20/40, corrected near visual acuity (CNVA) and correted disttanve visua acuity(CDVA) better than 20/20, spherical equivalent (SE) refraction for distance ranging between 0.25 diopter (D) and 1.00 D, up to 0,75 D of astigmatism, full-time reading glasses for near visual tasks required for a minimum of 1 year, clearly determined ocular dominance, central corneal thickness (CCT) greater than 500 micra, mesopic pupilary diameter more than 3mm and endothelial cell count 2000 cells/mm2 in the eye to be implanted
Anterior and posterior segment pathology, including cataracts in the eye to be implanted, previous intraocular or corneal surgery including cataract and LASIK surgery, chronic systemic or topical corticosteroids, or other immunosuppressive therapy that may affect wound healing, and any immuno-compromised subjects, systemic medications with significant ocular side effects and subjects who use telescopes or microscopes for professional reasons, or have high vision requirements or expectations like surgeons, architects, accountants, professional athletes or pilots.
The mean uncorret near visual acuity improved to Jaeger 1 in 90,32% of eyes treated with the inlay. All eyes improved four lines in all visits. The binocular uncorret distance visual acuity is 20/20 in all cases. Patients reported near vision to be good or excellent in 90,03%. There were 16,1% patients, whom lost more than 3 lines incorret distance visual acuity. No intraoperative or postoperative complications are reported
Evaluation of hig order aberration,also note an increase of Coma aberration  and the Trefoil aberration.In the contrast analysis over the time, both mesophic and escothopic decrease after the surgery
Effectiveness of manual lymphatic drainage on lymphedema of the lower limbs compared with the massage technique with smooth movements in reducing lymphedema lower limb. 
Evaluation of lymphatic drainage and massage  to reduce lymphedema.
All patients will be submitted for a period of one hour of treatment at a frequency of once a week with manual lymphatic drainage technique Godoy 
Patients with lymphedema of lower limbs, clinical diagnostic or lymphoscintigraphy,  without active infection or skin lesion. Both sexs ranging in age from 21 years and maximum 75 years.
Absence of lymphedema, presence of active infection or clinical contraindication for lymphatic drainage such as renal or cardiac decompensation
Will be assessed the initial volume of the limb with lymphedema and normal considered lymphedema 200gramas a greater volume than in relation to normal by volume, water displacement technique before and after each procedure: manual lymphatic drainage (Technical Godoy) and massage. The main outcome variable is the reduction of swelling after treatment. 
Check if the volume reduction measured by volumetry, the technique of lymphatic drainage is higher when compared to massage.
Respiratory support during physical activity in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
Effects of two ventilatory support modalities on exercise tolerance and dynamic hyperinflation in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
One group: 15 patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary isease stages 2-4 GOLD panel will be submitted to an incremental cardiopulmonary test the tolerance limit. In this test, after 2 minutes in a constant speed of 1.6 km / h without inclination, the speed is increased every minute by 0.3 km / h 0.5 km / h and 0.8 Km / h, as aerobic condition of the patient, assessed by the examiner prior to the test. After the three patients conduct endurance tests using cardiopulmonary testing at a constant speed corresponding to 70-80% of the maximum speed obtained in the incremental pattern, on separate days, with a minimum of 24 hours between each of the tests, random sequence by drawing lots. Are two types of non-invasive ventilation (positive expiratory pressure or EPAP pressure and bilevel or BiPAP) during exercise on a treadmill compared to an exercise test without intervention (control). To EPAP will be used between 5 and 10 expiratory resistance level cmH2O and BiPAP is used inspiratory support level of 4 cmH2O and expiratory resistance between 5 and 10 cmH2O.
Patients of both sexes;age between 40 and 75 years; patients with COPD stages 2,3 and 4 according to the panel GOLD criteria, which are exacerbation-free for at least two months, in regular use of prescription drugs; sinus rhythm; the evaluated patients should be able to perform spirometry and cardiopulmonary exercise testing; fall of CI
Recent Myocardial Infarction (less than 6 months), unstable angina, complex ventricular arrhythmia with hemodynamic instability; continuous oxygen therapy need or SaO2 
Time of exercise tolerance on treadmill, and significant intervention in a change in the constant speed exercise time in the wake of greater than 100 seconds.
Level subjective perception of effort to breathe or fatigue in the legs by the modified Borg scale larger than 2 points on a scale of 0 to 10.
Comparison of continuous aerobic exercise effect with interval high intensity exercise in patients with heart failure
Effect of high intensity interval training verses moderate intensity continuos training in functional capacity and quality of life of patients with heart failure: randomized controlled trial

Experimental group: 50 patients with heart failure, with class 1 to 3, which receive interval training for 12 weeks of exercise, 3 times a week in the first month, 2 times a week in the second month and 1 time per week in third month. The exercise prescription will consist of 10 minutes of heating 30 minutes of interval aerobic exercise and 10 minutes of cooling. Aerobic training protocol, which in this group consist of periods of 30 seconds of exercise with training intensity 80% heart rate reserve (HRR), followed by 30 seconds of passive rest up to a total 30 minutes of aerobic activity. In addition to exercise, this group of patients also receive professional guidance for achieving continuous aerobic exercise at home to complete five days of physical activity a week. To register these exercises, patients receive the first session, a diary, which shall record the day mode, the FC reached, how long realized the exercise and if there are any complications.
Control group: 50 patients with heart failure, functional class 1 to 3, which receive continuous training for 12 weeks, initially three times a week in the first month, reducing to 2 times per week in the second month and 1 time per week in the third month. The exercise prescription will consist of 10 minutes of heating 30 minutes of continuous aerobic activity with heart rate between 50 and 60% of HRR in the first month, 60 to 70% of HRR in the second month and 70-80% of HRR last month and 10-minute cooling. In addition to supervised exercise, patients receive guidance from professionals to perform continuous aerobic exercise at home to complete five days of physical activity a week. To register these exercises, patients receive the first session, a diary, which shall record the day mode, the FC reached, how long realized the exercise and if there are any complications.
Individuals with heart failure ; functional classes II and III of the New York Heart Association ( NYHA) ; ejection fraction less than 45 %; both genders ; medical clearance ; optimal medical treatment .
Subject that presented new cardiac event; clinical decompensation against that indicate the continuity of the physical activity program; and / or to submit physical limitation that prevents participation in the program.
Increased distance walk after 12 weeks of training , through the Shuttle Walk Test.
Improved ventilatory efficiency after 12 weeks of training, evaluated during the Shuttle Walk Test for portable spirometry ( Cortex ) ; Control of adverse events during the 12 weeks of training, through the records in the daily developments; Increased physical activity after 12 weeks of training, the questionnaire Duke Activity Status Index validated and translated into portuguÊsdo Brazil ; Improved quality of life after 12 weeks of training, the questionnaire Minnesota Living with Heart Failure translated and validated for Portuguese in Brazil.
Assessment the Effect of Combined Treatment of diuretic 1.5mg/angiotensin receptor antagonists 50mg and diuretic 1.5mg/angiotensin receptor antagonists 100mg, Compared With 1.5 mg diuretic Monotherapy in the Treatment of Hypertension  
Randomized, phase III, multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy trial to assess the effect of combined treatment of Indapamide 1.5mg / Losartan 50 mg and 
Indapamide 1.5mg / Losartan 100mg, compared to monotherapy Indapamide 
Experimental Group 1: 85 patients should take diuretic 1.5mg / angiotensin receptor 50 mg tablet + 1 placebo diuretic (for blinding) once daily in the morning for 12 weeks.
Experimental Group 2: 85 patients should take diuretic 1.5mg / angiotensin receptor 100 mg + 1 tablet of placebo in the diuretic (for blinding) once daily in the morning for 12 weeks.
Patients of both sexes, aged 
Patients with blood pressure , 180/100 mmHg;Presence of concomitant coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, diabetes and renal failure (creatinine
To evaluate the superiority of the fixed-dose association of two diuretic antihypertensive agents 1.5mg / angiotensin receptors and diuretic 50mg 1.5mg / angiotensin receptor 100 mg, compared to 1.5 mg monotherapy to treat diuretic uncontrolled essential hypertension (> 140/90 mmHg). The primary variable for assessing the effectiveness will be obtained through the response rate of systolic and diastolic blood pressure, measured by the difference between the systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure at baseline and at the final visit. The confidence interval with 95% confidence for ?1 - ?2 will be built by ANCOVA (analysis of covariance), where ?2 is the average response rate of comparator drug and ?1 is the mean of the drug test1 (or test2). The association shall be considered superior to monotherapy in the treatment of essential hypertension, if the lower limits of 95% for systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure are greater than 0.475 and 0.19, respectively.
Percentage (%) of patients with blood pressure levels <140/90 mmHg at 12 weeks; Percentage (%) of patients excluded from the study for treatment failure; Time to adequate control of systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP <140/90 mmHg); Evaluation of the incidence of adverse events; The safety assessment of study medication will be provided through the registry of any adverse events, episodes of hypotension serious adverse events and unexpected reactions to the drug. Still, the following blood tests for safety monitoring will be performed: fasting blood glucose, complete blood count and platelet count, assessment of liver function (ALT, AST), sodium, potassium and assessment of renal function (creatinine). The 95% will be constructed and analyzed in a similar way to the primary variable for those continuous variables. The confidence interval with 95% confidence p1 - p2 is constructed by ANCOVA (analysis of covariance) for proportions, where p2 is the rate of response comparison of the drug and the drug is p1 test1 and test2. For categorical variables, categorical change test, as McNemar test and Stuart-Maxwell test is applied for comparison between visits (compared within each product) and chi-square test to compare the drugs.
Effect of exercise on strength and balance of diabetic patients
Comparative evaluation of the effect of aerobic, resistance and combined training on muscle strength and balance in individuals with type 2 diabetes
The intervention will be aerobic, resistance and combined training. The activity system will consist of three sessions per week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday), in the morning, lasting 60 minutes over a period of 12 weeks, totaling 36 sessions. Aerobic Group: 15 type 2 diabetics will perform aerobic training on a stationary bike. Resistance group: 15 type 2 diabetics will perform resistance training for upper and lower limbs. Group combined: 15 type 2 diabetics will perform aerobic and resistance training. Control group: 15 type 2 diabetic patients did not undergo training. All research groups will receive information about self-care related to diabetes through lectures and explanatory leaflets during the intervention period. The control group will receive training at the end of the research.
Individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus; diagnosis of diabetes for at least 3 years; with diabetic neuropathy; both sexes; aged 50 years; sedentary; able to walk without assistance or supervision from others;
Presence macroangiopathy; history of neurological diseases, muscular rheumatism or outside the etiology of diabetes; presence of uncontrolled hypertension; lack the physical activity program; smokers; dependent on alcohol and illicit drugs; change in the use of corticosteroids, oral hypoglycemic agents or any hypoglycemic diet two months before the start of the exercise protocol.
Improved static postural balance, dynamic, and risk falling verified by a postural stability platform device, the Biodex Balance System, starting from statistical analysis using a reliability of 95%
Improved cognition, memory and depressive state verified through tests and questionnaires from statistical analysis using a 95% reliability.
Motivational interviewing in patients with heart failure

The effect of motivational interviewing through the home visit and telemonitoring in patients with heart failure
Intervention group : 70 patients with heart failure who will receive follow-up three home visits and four telephone consultations with the motivational interviewing approach. Control group: 71 patients who will receive conventional follow-up second treatment protocol of a multidisciplinary clinic specializing in care for heart failure.

Patients older than 18 years; with a diagnosis of Heart Failure , regardless of etiology; have face care with a multidisciplinary clinical team specializing in IC, because telephone consultation work strengthening classroom guidelines; preserved or reduced ejection fraction; functional class NYHA I- III; have signed the free and informed consent form.
patients with cognitive neurological disease; patients with no direct telephone contact.
Increased maintenance scores , management and self-care trust in heart failure analyzed at baseline , 90 days and 180 days after the intervention by application of validated questionnaires in Brazil.
Increased adherence scores to treatment and quality of life analyzed at baseline, 90 days and 180 days after the intervention by application of validated questionnaires in Brazil.
What is the effect of iontophoresis in the treatment of patients with primary palmar hyperhidrosis?
Treatment of Palmar Hyperhidrosis with Iontophoresis: Case Reports

The service lasted twenty minutes, three times a week for four weeks. Participants were assessed before treatment and reassessed in the sixth and final sessions, and three days, two weeks, four and six weeks after the twelfth session, the second protocol proposed by Chan et al14, 1999. The treatment consisted of application of iontophoresis with tap water through the galvanic current (unit Endophasys Multicorrentes - KLD), with intensity of feeling dependent on volunteers. During the sessions, participants were in sedestração, hands Supine. The electrodes were wrapped in sponges saturated with tap water, the cathode was placed in the palm of his right hand and the anode in the left hand, with polarity reversal in half the time.
Individuals of both sexes who had bilateral primary palmar hyperhidrosis
Individuals presenting metallic implants in the upper limbs, impaired sensation in the hands of, who used drugs that caused the malfunction, or perform some other type of treatment for hyperhidrosis.
Iontophoresis as a therapeutic resource features in the short term, significant results in the treatment of primary palmar hyperhidrosis, providing patients with an improvement in their quality of life by reducing excessive sweating in the affected area in a non-invasive and without developing intolerance.  Patient evaluation was performed by the application of two questionnaires. The first was the Quality of Life Questionnaire in Patients with hyperhidrosis,in which 20 points representing "excellent" and 100 "very bad". The other scale used was the Questionnaire for Disorders of the Shoulder, Arm and Hand (DASH), in which 30 points represent a minimal impairment, and 150, maximum dysfunction.  The Minor test was used to identify and quantify the areas hyperhidrotic. The reaction between iodine solution (2%) and corn starch was recorded by a digital photography (camera Samsung - Digimax A 503), to monitor the progress of treatment. Areas with hyperhidrosis have been classified as an area - only involvement fingertips, area 2 - proximal and middle phalanges, area 3 - the lower half of the palm, area 4 - the top half of the palm. Both the questionnaires and the Minor test were performed on all revaluations.
Temporary reduction in sweating in other body regions, according to the testimony of the patients.
Evaluation of blood pressure, blood flow fetal and neonatal outcome with the use of a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor in the treatment of women with preeclampsia 
Hemodynamics and perinatal assessment of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors in pregnant women with preeclampsia
The cases will be randomized into two groups:
Experimental group: 50 adult women with preeclampsia take capsules of sildenafil citrate (50 mg) of 8 and 8 hours until delivery indication.
Pregnant women between 24-33 weeks. Diagnosis of pregnancy induced hypertension, defined as diastolic blood pressure equal to or greater than 90 mmHg and proteinuria above 0.3 g in 24 hours. Admitted at least 24 hours. Signing an informed consent form
Twin pregnancy. Diabetes. Provided hypertension and other chronic diseases. Serious fetal malformations. Fetal vitality of changes indicating the termination of pregnancy (reverse diastole umbilical artery, abnormal ductus venosus, severe oligoâminio, GMP below 6. Maternal changes indicating the termination of pregnancy (Eclampsia, HEELP syndrome, severe renal impairment). Patient use of magnesium sulfate, erythromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, or other antiretroviral drugs that have interaction with sildenafil. Refusal to sign the post informed consent.
Assess whether there is improvement in the flow in the uterine arteries, umbilical and middle cerebral with the administration of the phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors,  by examining Doppler. To detect a change in pulsatividade 0.16 umbilical artery ratio, a sample of 26 patients would be required to achieve a 80% power (alpha 0.05).
Evolution of the mean arterial pressure. Time between randomization and delivery, measured in days. Sample calculated for a significant variation of at least five days. Need for other anti hypertensive. To evaluate the neonatal results. Possible side effects and intolerance to medication.
Physiotherapy techniques in Parkinson
Physiotherapy approaches in Parkinson
This project will lead to three. Initially all patients with Parkinson
Signed the Free and Informed Consent Statement; age of 50 to 80 years; both sexes; diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson
Cognitive impairment (Mini-Mental less than or equal to 18); other neurological disorders; hypertension or uncontrolled arrhythmia; severe visual impairment uncorrected; vertigo; presence of metal implant brand or pacemaker; constant headache and without diagnosis; history of convulsion; use of medication that alters cortical excitability; younger than 50 years; older than 80 years.
Improved mobility, verified by the Timed up and go test, from the observation of decrease of at least 5% at execution time (seconds) in the pre and post intervention.  
Improving the ability to modify the gait in response to changes in demand, checked through the Dynamic Gait Index, from the increasing the score at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Increased walking speed (meters/second) and cadence (steps/minute), verified through the 10-meter walk test, based on the statement of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in the level of activity (mobility, freezing, dual task), checked by Parkinson Activity Scale, from the observation of an increase in the score of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in gait parameters, such as increased stride length (cm) and speed (m/s), checked by means of kinematics, from the observation of an increase of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in disability and disability caused by Parkinson's disease, verified by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale from the decrease of the finding in the score of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Decrease in the stage of Parkinson's disease, verified by Hoehn and Yahr Modified Scale, based on the statement of decrease of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improves the individual's ability perform daily activities, verified by the percentage of Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living Scale, from the realization of the increase of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improved balance and decrease the risk of falling, verified by the score of the Berg Balance Scale, based on the statement of increase of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement of static balance, with decreased postural sway, verified by Stabilometry, from the variation of finding at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements. Improvement in gait and decreased episodes of freezing of gait disorders, verified by the score Freezing of Gait Questionnaire, based on the statement of decrease of at least 5% in pre and post intervention. Improved self-reported quality of life, verified by the score of Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire 39 from the decrease of finding at least 5% in pre and post intervention.
Inflammatory and Gene Response to Diet
Inflammatory Response To Consumption Of Specific Dietary Compounds: A Nutrigenomic Study
Twenty normal-weight  and twenty overweight or obese women (20-40 years old) received two different meals, rich in saturated fatty acid (26% of energy intake), including orange juice (500 mL)- test meal or water (500 mL)- control meal. Test and control meals were randomly offered to forty women, with a washout period of 7-14 days.  Subjects had meals in 12-h fasting and metabolic, inflammatory and gene expression markers will assess in fast time (T0) and in T2, T3 and T5 (2, 3, 5 h postprandial times)
Women, age between 20-40 years-old, normal-weight (BMI: 18,5-24,9 kg/m2) or overweight/Obesity (BMI: 25,0-35,0 kg/m2), no smokers
Pregnancy or lactiontion or menopause.
Infections or inflammation in the experiment days; Inflammatory, heart, liver, renal, gastrointestinal and respiratory diseases; Hormonal treatment or prescribed drug that affect glucose metabolism; Alcoholic or drug dependence; Smoking; Recent follow-up of diets designed to weight loss or unstable weight in the last three months (higher than 5% usual weight); To be athlete
The improvement in the inflammatory posprandial response (2, 3 or 5 h) to orange juice consumption will be lower in overweight women, compared to normal-weight women
The metabolic response (serum glucose, insulin, triglycerides, uric acid, total cholesterol, HDL-c and LDL-c concentrations) to saturated fatty acid intake will be different between normal-weight and obese women at postprandial time
Evaluation of the Use of Guaco Syrup for Dilation and Reduction of Inflammation in the Respiratory Tract Through Pulmonary Function Tests in Asthmatic Volunteers
Evaluation of bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory activity of guaco syrup in humans by pulmonary function tests in asthmatics volunteers
EVALUATION OF BRONCHODILATOR ACTIVITY 

40 volunteers will be randomly divided into three groups with the same number of participants. The first group will receive 15 ml of guaco syrup followed by saline inhalation (4 jets of oral pray)(intervention group), the second group will receive 15 ml of base syrup followed by inhalation of salbutamol (oral spray, 400 mcg) (control group I) and the third group will receive 15 ml of base syrup followed by saline inhalation (4 jets of oral pray) (control group II). The administration of the medications will be performed in a single dose and the evaluation of the intervention will occur during the next 4 hours. As all volunteers will participate in the 3 groups, it will take 3 days for analysis.
Moderate persistent asthm (according to the classification criteria included in the IV Brazilian Guidelines for Asthma Management); aged between 18 and 60 years; diagnosis of asthma performed by spirometry (FEV1 / FVC 
Volunteers who had a stroke or acute myocardial infarction in the last three months; aortic aneurysm; systolic blood pressure higher than 200 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure higher than 90 mmHg; epileptics; unable to understand the procedure and implications of the study; with induced bronchoconstriction by recent spirometry; recent airway infection (during the last six weeks); during or near an asthma exacerbation; pregnant or breastfeeding women; in use of cholinesterase inhibitors; and smokers. 
Bronchodilator Activity Positive bronchodilator response verified by spirometry test. Elevation of FEV1 in 200 ml or more and, in parallel, increase in FEV1 by 12% when compared to baseline or 7% when compared to the value predicted for the volunteer.  Anti-inflammatory activity Positive anti-inflammatory response evaluated by spirometry test. After the intervention, the increase in methacholine dose required to cause a 20% decrease in FEV 1 values characterizes the anti-inflammatory effect.
We don't expect secondary outcomes.
Study to evaluate and compare anti retroviral tablet formulations for oral fixed dose and solutions in children
Open, randomized study to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetic parameters comparing antiretroviral formulations fixed-dose tablet and oral solution in pediatric population
All 30 participants remained for 14 consecutive days each tether:

Arm A: Compressed fixed dose combination dispersible Nevirapine (50mg), Lamivudine (30mg) and Zidovudine (60mg), 12 hours at 12 for 14 consecutive days.
Weight between 6.5 and 24.9kg;Confirmed HIV infection; documented by positive results from two samples collected at different times prior to entering the study:Sample # 1 can be tested using:Two rapid tests from two different manufacturers antibodies or based on principles and different antigenic determinants (for larger participants 18 months);An essay EIA OR Western blot OR immunofluorescence assay OR chemiluminescence assay (for larger participants 18 months);A PCR HIV DNA;A quantitative PCR HIV DNA (
Values outside normal laboratory tests in step 4; according to the DAIDS toxicity table (Annex IV); up to 2 weeks before study entry;Vomiting and diarrhea (greater than grade 2) at least 30 days prior to study entry;Treatment of bacterial; viral or acute severe opportunistic;History of drug toxicity requiring discontinuation of any study drug;Hypersensitivity to drugs under study;medical or surgical problems affecting motility or gastrointestinal absorption (eg: ileus; ulcerative colitis) or liver function;Treatment with experimental drugs within 30 days prior to study entry;Any acute hepatitis;Chemotherapy for cancer;Any disease or clinically significant findings during the medical assessment or physical examination that; in the opinion of the investigator; may interfere with the study;Pregnancy;Failure immune defined as:Incomplete immune response: defined as a failure in subjects with severe immunodeficiency (baseline CD4 percentage 
Describe any adverse reactions attributed to pediatric formulation under test and the liquid formulation;
Capture all adverse events in each treatment regimen; Proportion of adverse events of grade 3 or 4;
Treadmill Gait Training for Children with Cerebral Palsy

Treadmill Training Without Body Weight Support on Children with Cerebral Palsy
19 children in the experimental group will undergo the gait training on a treadmill using two weekly sessions for a period of seven consecutive weeks. The first two sessions will be considered for recognition of the mat and the training will be conducted with a high speed gradually according to the tolerance of the child. Used for training will be 60-80% of the maximum speed reached during the exercise test. The child will use their usual brace, properly placed by the physiotherapist. 19 control children will undergo the gait training ground. The child uses its own bracing and when necessary to use auxiliary normal gait. Preliminary assessment will be conducted in order to verify that the auxiliary gear is appropriately sized for children. If not, it will be regulated. The first two sessions will be free to recognize the environment, and self-selected speed for the child, as well as the duration of training. In the six weeks training will last 30 minutes. In the beginning and end five minutes the child will be asked to walk at a speed comfortable and autoselecionada. In the middle 20 minutes the child will be encouraged to increase speed. You can not monitor the speed of training of this group. The heart rate will be monitored to ensure no overload on the cardiovascular system. All participants will be asked to maintain their daily activities and therapy sessions.
Children with cerebral palsy. Age between three and 12 years. Absence of cognitive or visual impairment that could compromise the performance of the tasks. Levels I, II and III of the Gross Motor Functional Classification System (GMFCS). Functional ambulation for at least 12 months.
Orthopedic surgical procedures or neuromuscular block in the 12 months prior to the training sessions. Presence of orthopedic deformities with surgical indications.

Improvement in functional mobility and fitness evaluated by testing six-minute walk.
Improvement in functional performance measured by thePediatric Evaluation of Disability Inventory.
Exercices for pelvic muscles before and after pelvic organs prolapse surgery 
Training of Pelvic Floor Muscles before and after Pelvic Organs Prolapse (POP) surgery
Forty women with surgical indication for  repair pelvic organ prolapse will be included in the study (bladder, uterus and retum). A group of 20 women will be randomized to the training of the pelvic floor muscles (ten maximum perineal contractions maintained for 7 seconds followed by three rapid contractions in supine, sitting, kneeling and standing) muscles. These exercises will be conducted twice a week to 15 days before the surgical procedure and after 40 days after surgery, in the frequency of once a week every day, until 90 days after the surgery. The other group of 20 women did not perform the strengthening exercises for the muscles of the pelvic floor.
Age between 35 and 80 years old; clinical complaints consistent with genital prolapse; medical indication for vaginal surgery to repair the anterior, apical and posterior defects, POP stages II, III and IV evaluated by the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (POP-Q); absence of prior correction of pelvic organ prolapse pelvic surgery; absence of present vaginal and urinary infections; women literate; absence of uncompensated endocrine disorders that may interfere with sexual function (hypothyroidism)

Use of hormone  therapy;immediate complications related to the surgical correction of POP not resolved within 40 days after surgery (pain and infection vaginal vault); late complications not directly related to the surgery (post-anesthesia headache); women who do not accept any of the reviews make proposals;
women who do not meet the previous schedule of ratings of physical therapy and evaluations
Reduction of symptoms of pelvic organ prolapse, such as urinary incontinence and pelvic discomfort, verified by PFDI-20 questionnaire
Improvement of pelvic floor muscle function, measured by digital palpation and perineometry, improvement in sexual function, verified by PSIQ-12 questionnaire, improvement in quality of life, verified by PIFIQ-7 questionnaire and verification of higher perception of improvement after surger, by PGI-I questionnaire
Effects of body electrical stimulation after the stomach reduction surgery
Functional, clinical and systemic effects of the body electrical stimulation on bariatric surgery postoperative
Participants will be evaluated preoperatively by means of lung function, maximal capacity by means of cardiopulmonary exercise testing and submaximal exercise capacity by means of 6 minute walking test and 2 minutes step test, blood inflammatory markers (leptina, myostatin, TNF-a and adiponectin), body composition (In Body 720 and DXA), quadriceps strength and endurance  (BIODEX) and the autonomic control of heart rate (HR) at rest and during submaximal exercise. The flow-mediated dilation response to maximum cardiopulmonary test and the six-minute step test. After hospital discharge, participants will be evaluated only by means of submaximal exercise capacity, body composition and HR. It will also be performed a treatment with whole body neuromuscular electrical stimulation for a specific period and after this period, all the pre-operative evaluations will be repeated.	Participants will be randomized into two groups containing a total of 36 patients for both (sham group: 16 and electrical stimulation group: 16). A whole-body electrical stimulation protocol (EENMC) will be done with Miha Bodytec equipment(Augsburg, Germany), which program consists of EENMC 6 weeks, 5 times a week. The movements performed during electrical stimulation or sham will be light with low amplitude without the addition of any weight, in standing position. The equipment allows simultaneous activation of up to 14-18 regions or 8-12 muscle groups (legs, arms, buttocks, abdomen, chest, back, latissimus dorsi, upper and lower back) with pre-selectable intensity for each region. The sessions will be held on average 18 minutes, which the five days of treatment, three will be intended for endurance training and two to strength training. The endurance protocol apply a biphasic electrical current with a frequency of 85 Hz and 350 msec pulse duration intermittently in cycles of 6 seconds electrical stimulation using a direct drive to perform the slight movements and 4 seconds of rest, with the intensity should be adjusted to levels submaximal (effective visual contraction but without discomfort to the patient). In training endurance, total electrostimulation time will vary around 12 minutes with about 5 minutes rest between sets. Strength training will consist of the same biphasic current at a frequency of 30Hz and 350 ms intermittently pulse duration, with cycles of 4 seconds stimulation using a direct drive to perform the slight movements and 10 seconds of rest, with the intensity should be the maximum for the patient within its tolerance limit. In strength training, the electrical stimulation`s time will last around 8 minutes with 5 minutes of rest between sets and total time about 18 min. The control group will hold placebo intervention (sham) will perform the same protocol, but with perception of current.
This research will include obese (BMI 35 kg / m2) or morbidly obese (BMI 40 kg / m2) for at least three years or more without positive results to conventional treatments (pharmacological or not) aged 20 to 45 years will undergo surgery of Gastric Bypass (CBG). Patients with BMI
Exclusion criteria are volunteers with orthopedic or neurological impairments that unable participation in an exercise program; myocardial infarction (within the beginning of the six-month study period); implanted pacemaker or any metallic synthesis; unstable angina; chronic disorders of the heart rhythm; moderate or severe valvular heart disease; consistent story of heart disease; uncontrolled hypertension; uncontrolled diabetes mellitus and / or insulin-dependent; beta-blocker users; postmenopausal women and participation in a regular program of physical activity at baseline. It will be also excluded from the present study any COPD volunteers or patients presenting other respiratory diseases or who present any contraindication to cardiopulmonary exercise test or condition that may limit the performance of the functional tests; distal artery diseases; inflammatory diseases; kidney diseases; and liver diseases with documented diabetic neuropathy; cognitive impairment; difficulty in understanding and / or adherence to study procedures; reported using illicit drugs and pregnancy.
Increase in strength and reduced quadriceps` fatigue through Isokinetic BIODEX SYSTEM , Biodex Multi -Joint System 2 Model BIODEX MEDICAL SYSTEM Inc., Biodex Software version. 4.5, waiting maintenance or increase of at least 5% in muscular strength and endurance.
In relation to flow-mediated vasodilation is expected to compare its response pre and post maximal exercise and submaximal  test in obese people and identify whether there is a sex - dependent factor. It is expected only to study their behavior, because there is no normal values referenced for this population.
Study of gait and balance of subjects suffering from diabetic foot complications.
Gait parameters, plantar pressures and body balance of diabetics with neuropathy and vasculopathy that use insoles
Initially all methodological  procedures will be performed for two groups: control (CG) and diabetic (GD), followed by periodic reassessments of the GD, ending with a comparison of data. 
Stage I - At this stage all subjects in both groups (GC and GD) will be submitted to the methodological procedures of the study (detection of vasculopathy and neuropathy, plantar pressure analysis of static and dynamic equilibrium analysis). 
In the diabetic group, will need medical confirmation of diabetes mellitus, changes in the circulation and peripheral perfusion, detected respectively by the ankle/ brachial index and pulse oximetry, and diabetic neuropathy confirmed by insensitivity to the Semmes-Weinstein monofilament 10g and the scale for the diagnosis of diabetic distal polyneuropathy. For the control group, it is mandatory sensitivity to monofilament 2g, confirming the normality of somatosensory sensitivity of the feet.
Will be excluded from the study who were diagnosed with other neurological disease or neuropathic; to have visual impairment or vestibular important and uncorrected, inability to understand for testing.
The statistical analysis consists of, initially to check the distribution as to normality by the Shapiro-Wilk. Comparisons between different time points (before use of sock = T1, one minute after placing the insole (T2), two days after its use = T3; after fifteen days of use = T4; thirty days of use = T5, and Finally, forty-five days of use = T6) will be done using analysis of variance for repeated measures, supplemented by post-hoc Tukey. In this study, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will also be used for the same comparisons, but using the body mass, height, gender, speed, leg length and duration of disease as covariates. All tests will be performed using the SPSS 17.0 software and the level of significance is 5%.
Still, we seek to propose an effective tool in the prevention of ulcers and amputation in the diabetic population.
Evaluation of a recipe made with leaves and stalks of beet and its effect on oxidative stress and fat levels in the blood after a meal in patients with dyslipidaemia
Biochemical and sensory analysis of a preparation made with beet leaves and stalks and evaluate its effect on oxidative stress and postprandial lipemia in dyslipidemic subjects
This study will be divided into three stages. In the first step, the total antioxidant capacity will be assessed as well as the identification and quantification of phenolic compounds in beet leaves and stems produced in Goiânia/GO. In the second stage will evaluate the applicability of these leaves and stems in Brazilian cuisine. It will also be selected a meal that is easy to prepare and low cost to be prepared with different amounts of beet tops, followed by sensory analysis. In the third step, a clinical trial is conducted with individuals with dyslipidemia to evaluate the effect of the ingestion of the selected recipe in the previous step on postprandial hypertriglyceridemia and oxidative stress in different doses. Placebo group: 5 subjects will receive a high-fat meal followed by flavored water. Experimental group 1: 5 subjects will receive a high-fat meal accompanied by a leaf and stalk beet juice containing 50mg of polyphenols. Experimental group 2: 5 subjects will receive a high-fat meal accompanied by a leaf and stalk beet juice containing 150 mg of polyphenols.  Meals are made with fasting patients. The washout period will be 7 days. All patients will undergo all groups (crossover study)
15 Dyslipidemic volunteers; both genders; aged 20 to 60 years; non smokers.
Voluntiers in insulin use; diagnosis of diabetes mellitus; kidney disease; liver or thyroid disorders; Patients undergoing treatment for weight control; pregnant women; nursing mothers; menopausal women; women on hormone replacement; smoking; on medication for dyslipidemia control; history of a cardiovascular event in the last six months.
It was observed attenuate the reduction of HDL-C, determined by the enzymatic colorimetric method, with an automatic System Vitros Chemistry 950 XRL (Johnson & Johnson) and decreased systolic blood pressure, measured with an Omron pressure monitor (HEM-7200 model Kyoto, Japan) with certificate of approval of  Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation and European Society of Hypertension, and measured as recommended by the American Heart Association (AHA, 2005).  No changes were found in other outcomes. Deltas were obtained by the difference between each time and baseline. Data were presented as the mean ± standard error range and significance level for all tests was 5%
Not analysed yet.
Study of the effect of a new treatment with antibiotic in babies with brochiolitis.
Using azithromycin to reduce bronchiolitis length of hospital stay in infants.
Treatment with azythromycin per oral.
Infants younger than 12 months, with diagnosis of acute bronchiolitis and hospitalization for at least 24 hours.
Chronic lung disease, cystic fibrosis, congenital heart diseases and previous use of macrolides.
Length of hospitalization: number of days of hospitalization, mesuared by date of discharge - date of hospitalization.
Length of need of oxygen therapy: number of days of oxygen use, mesuared by the day when oxygen prescription was cancelled - first day of oxygen prescription.
Effect of psychological preparation in the preoperative anxiety in children undergoing ambulatory surgery
Effect of psychological intervention in the preoperative anxiety of preschool children
Intervention group: 50 children and their parents were cared for in a psychology section where questions were developed as fear of anesthesia of parents and children and the moment of separation of children from parents. It was associated in the intervention group awaiting surgery for the child in a toy room.
Control Group: 50 children who waited surgery in a toy room
Children of both gender, aged 2-8 years classified as ASA I according to the American Association of anesthesiology, which were attended in the pre-anesthetic assessment clinic of the University Hospital of Jundiaí Medical School and undergoing surgery outpatient at the same hospital.
children with previous surgeries, the ones with confirmed behavioral and cognitive changes, users of psychoactive drugs, patients with history of convulsion, mental illness and chronic pain.
Primary endpoint found: The assessment  50 children in each distinct group. Statistical analysis was performed with the help of STATA / SE 9.0 for Windows. In the analysis of groups, medians and percentiles were used as a measure of central tendency and variability due to non normal tendency of the fractionated sample groups. Comparisons between groups for continuous variables was performed using the Mann-Whitney test. After evaluation and comparison of groups, a significant reduction was observed (p = 0.04) in the degree of anxiety in the group receiving psychological preparation compared to the control group.
Secondary end point found: Statistical analysis of results was performed using the Mann-Whitney test with values expressed as medians and percentiles and parents of the psychological preparation group showed significant reduction compared to the parents of the control group at the time of surgery (p = 0.01). No correlation was found between anxiety of parents and children in the consultation moment (p = 0.58) and surgery moment (p = 0.78). The test  Spearman correlation was used to evaluate the intensity relations of the variables ordinating each other.  
A Randomized Double-Blind Phase 3 Trial Comparing Docetaxel Combined with
Dasatinib to Docetaxel Combined with Placebo in Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
A Randomized Double-Blind Phase 3 Trial Comparing Docetaxel Combined with
Dasatinib to Docetaxel Combined with Placebo in Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Comparison group: 690 patients receive docetaxel 75 mg/m2 administered IV over 1 hour every 3 weeks for 10 cycles plus prednisone 5 mg 2x / d given continuously + dasatinib 100 mg 1x / d until disease progression, control group: 690 patients receive docetaxel 75 mg/m2 administered IV over 1 hour every 3 weeks for 10 cycles plus prednisone 5 mg 2x / d + placebo given continuously until disease progression
Subjects must have signed an informed consent document stating that they
understand the investigational nature of the proposed treatment.
Women.
Sexually active fertile men not using effective birth control if their partners are WOCBP.
The primary endpoint in this study is Overall Survival and will be based on the Intention To Treat (ITT) population. The primary analysis of Overall Survival will be a comparison between the 2 treatment arms using a two-sided, alpha = 0.0463 (0.0002, 0.012 for the first and second interim analyses respectively) log-rank test, stratified by ECOG - Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group  performance status (0 - 1 vs 2), baseline biphosphonates intake (yes or no), and urinary N-telopeptide value (< 60 nmol/mmol creatinine vs >= 60 nmol/mmol creatinine). The alpha level is adjusted for 2 planned interim analyses using the O’Brien-Fleming alpha spending function.  Further analysis of Overall Survival will include the computation of hazard ratios and the estimation of survival functions. The survival hazard ratio of dasatinib in combination with docetaxel and prednisone to placebo in combination with docetaxel and prednisone and an associated two-sided 95.37% (99.98% and 98.8% for the first and second interim analyses respectively) confidence interval, will be computed using unadjusted and adjusted Cox proportional hazards model stratified by ECOG - Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group  performance status (0 - 1 vs 2), baseline bisphosphonate intake (yes/no), and urinary N-telopeptide value (< 60 nmol/mmol creatinine vs >= 60 nmol/mmol creatinine). The adjusted Cox proportional hazards model will include treatment and pre-specified prognostic factors including age (< 70, >= 70 years), presence of bone metastases (any bone metastases vs no bone mestastases), baseline alkaline phosphatase, type of progression (PSA (prostatic specific antigen), measurable disease, bone scan progression), number of metastases sites (< 2 vs >= 2), baseline hemoglobin, and baseline PSA (prostatic specific antigen)level.   The proportional hazards assumption will be assessed using time-dependent covariates. The survival function for each treatment will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. In addition, 2-sided 95% confidence intervals for the median survival will be computed by treatment arm.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints include rate of uNTx (Urinary N-Telopeptide)  change from baseline, time to first skeletal-related event, change in pain intensity, time to PSA (prostatic specific antigen) progression, objective tumor response rate, and rate of stable disease by bone scans. Secondary efficacy endpoints will be tested hierarchically.  Time to first skeletal-related event and time to PSA (prostatic specific antigen) progression in each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. A two-sided 95% confidence interval for median TFSRE (time to free Slekeletal-Related Event) and time to PSA (prostatic specific antigen) progression will be computed using the methods of Brookmeyer and Crowley. TFSRE (time to free Slekeletal-Related Event) and time to PSA (prostatic specific antigen) progression will also be compared between treatment arms with a two-sided, alpha= 05 level, log-rank test, stratified by ECOG - Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group  performance status (0 - 1 vs 2), baseline bisphosphonate intake (yes/no), and urinary N-telopeptide value (< 60 nmol/mmol creatinine vs >=60 nmol/mmol creatinine).  The proportion change in pain intensity, the stable disease by bone scans rate and the objective tumor response rate (RR) will be summarized for the 2 treatment arms with a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test, an associated odds ratio estimate and a 95% confidence interval, stratified by ECOG - Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group  performance status (0 - 1 vs 2), baseline bisphosphonate intake (yes/no), and urinary N-telopeptide value (< 60 nmol/mmol creatinine vs >= 60 nmol/mmol creatinine).  Secondary efficacy analyses will be performed at the time final survival analysis is performed.  
Postpartum depression and Emotion Recognition: clinical study of the acute effects of Oxytocin
Postpartum Depression and Facial Expression Recognition: clinical, randomized study involving the acute effects of Oxytocin
The subjects will be allocated in oxytocin-placebo groups (Gope placebo-oxytocin (GPO) remain the subject and the researcher 
Check shall be the initial inclusion criteria (age above 18 years, post-pregnancy postpartum (20-45 days after the baby
mothers with absence of diagnosis of depression post partum;
age under 18
Expected outcome: Improvement in the recognition of facial expressions of emotion, evaluated through two different tasks (computer and card). Will be evaluated the number of hits, the reaction time and the intensity of emotion. To check the outcome will be used statistical test group compared with a value of p is greater than 0:05. 
Expected outcome: mothers with postpartum depression and early emotional trauma present higher losses in the recognition of facial expressions of emotion. The presence / absence of early traumas emocionas will be assessed through a scale of self-assessment (type yes / no) and differences between groups through statistical test (significance p <0.05)
Study of the profile and the effects of an exercises program in patients candidates for liver surgery and liver transplantation
Study of the profile and the effects of an intervention program in patients candidates for liver surgery and liver transplantation
All patients who agreed to participate in the study responded to a record containing identification data, age, gender, diagnosis of liver disease, respiratory symptoms, history, habits, MELD and calculation of body mass index (BMI). We assessed MIP and MEP for manometer, muscular electrical activity of the rectus abdominis and diaphragm by surface electromyography and noted the RMS values when prompted a forced breath every three seconds. Pulmonary function was assessed by spirometry and quality of life by application of the SF-36 questionnaire. 37 patients were randomized to constitute the control and intervention groups, of which 23 participated in the control group and 14 in the intervention group. The evaluations were performed before the intervention, and after three months of it. The exercises were supervised from a distance, monthly by the same observer. The intervention consisted of an illustrative and explanatory text to be followed at home, with diaphragmatic breathing exercises; diaphragmatic isometric exercise, Threshold IMT®; lifting upper limbs with bat and strengthening the abdominal.All exercises were performed in three sets, 15 reps. For training with Threshold IMT® a load 23-40 cmH2O was used adjusted for each patient according to their tolerance. During the three months, the individual trained with the same load established at baseline. The control group did not do the exercises and it was evaluated two times, on first mounth and three mounths of it.
We included 37 patients who were on the waiting list for liver transplantation diagnosed with cirrhosis of any etiology; of both genders; over the age of 18; with or without the diagnosis of cardiorespiratory disorders associated with any value and MELD. These patients participated in the intervention group. 
Patients who were unable to understand verbal commands due to the important encephalopathy were excluded; who failed to carry out evaluations; diagnosed with severe acute liver failure and those who were called to transplantation or patients participating in the intervention group who died.
There was a significant increase (p = 0.017) of MIP in the control group and intervention group after three months; and in the domains of the SF-36 General Health (p = 0.019) and Mental Health (p = 0.004). It was expected that there were only increased in the intervention group, however there was an increase in both groups after three months.
Expected outcomes and that were found in the study: in the intervention group, patients with ascites at the end of time had worse scores on the Social Aspects domain of the SF-36 (p = 0.023) compared to those who had no ascites. In comparing the variables at the beginning and end of the study among former smokers or not, in the control group former smokers showed initial MEP (p = 0.047) and final (p = 0.009) higher than the smokers
The answer gymnastics in the water
Effects of physical exercises with weights and acquatic on parameters hemodynamic, vascular, metabolic, strength isometric, body image and quality of life during pregnancy
All women were submitted to an initial anamnesis with data from antenatal exams (gestational age, probable parturition date, and whether they were primiparae). The volunteers underwent three sessions for familiarization with the Aquatic Physical Effort (APE), undergo an anthropometric evaluation, and present a complete CBC and a permission by an obstetrician to take part in the study
Being over 18 years-old;third  trimester gestational; primiparae;answer negatively to all sentences of the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire ;normal blood pressure (140 por 90 mmHg) and  permission by the obstetrician to take part in the study.
Women with body mass index (BMI) over 40 kgm-2; those with some sort of musculoskeletal lesion in the past six months; smokers and those using some kind of supplement.
The results about paper were indexes of heart rate variability (IRR,SDNN,RMSSD,LF,HF,LF/HF and Apen and Sampen). We expect one more parameters that reflect one vagal modulation after swimming. 
Have not this
Effects of physical exercise and vitamin D supplementation on muscle mass of  hemodialysis patients
Effects of physical training and vitamin D supplementation on muscle mass of  hemodialysis patients
Group 1: 10 patients on maintenance hemodialysis that will receive Cholecalciferol (vitamin D) suplementation, dose of 50000 UI, once a week for 4 months, capsule orally,and aerobic exercise training on exercise bike (30 minutes three times a week for 4 months);
Individuals older than 18 years; with chronic kidney disease on dialysis for a period greater than or equal to three months; classified as sedentary or irregularly active according to the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ); do not have contraindications to physical activity; and accept and sign the Informed Consent.
Individuals unable to understand the procedures performed; prior diagnosis of coronary artery disease; positive exercise test for cardiac ischemia; patients classified as active or very active based on the International Physical Activity Questionnaire; Patients who have suffered stroke; patients with cancer, liver failure, chronic infection or acute in activity;  uncontrolled hypertension (
Significant increase in total muscle mass in the assessment before and after intervention period assessed by X-ray absorptiometry dual energy.
Significant increase of overall muscle function in the assessment before and after intervention period assessed by handgrip strength.
Use of adhesive strip compared to physiotherapy in treating shoulder pain
The Effects of Scapular Taping compared to physical therapy on Electromyographic Muscle Activity in subjects with subacromial impingement symptoms.
In the taping group, scapular taping will be applied to the symptomatic shoulder. This is theorised in the literature to result in inhibition of Upper Trapezius and facilitation of Lower Trapezius. All the taping applications will be performed by the same investigator. The intervention group will receive scapular taping applied three times per week for the first two weeks of their treatment. Each taping will be removed after two days in situ. 
In the control group, a three times per week program of physical therapy modalities (ultrasound, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)) and Open and closed Kinetic chain exercise (strengthening (serratus anterior, trapezius, and external rotation) and stretching (pectoralis major and minor) will be used in control treatment group for 2 weeks. 
Inclusion criteria is described as: pain before 150° of active shoulder elevation in any plane, positive Jobe test indicating the possible supraspinatus involvement, positive
Hawkins–Kennedy and Neer test, subjective complaint of difficulty performing activities of daily living. 
Subjects will be excluded if they show signs or symptoms of any of the following: neural, cervical or thoracic pathological conditions; or previous surgery of upper limbs.
Assessment of Scapular dyskinesia    Lateral Scapular Slide Test  It consists of measuring the distance between the inferior angle of the scapula to the spinous process corresponding to the shoulder to the 0th, 45th and 90th of abduction with the individual standing. According to Kibler & McMullen (2003), if this measure is greater than 15mm, we suggest the presence of scapular dyskinesia.
Penn Shoulder Score for the Portuguese Language: PSS-Brazil  The PSS questionnaire, developed in 1999, examines individuals with shoulder dysfunction, consisting of a 100-point scale that includes three domains: pain, pleasure and function. The domains of pain and satisfaction respectively show three items and one item assessed using a Numerical Rating Scale (EN) 00 to 10, where 0 corresponds to no pain and not satisfied, while 10 is the worst pain possible and very pleased. The domain of function contains twenty items, graded on a Likert scale of four points, ranging from 0, which means "can not do at all" to 3 "without difficulty" with the maximum score of 60 points. The PSS score ranges from 0 to 100 points, with the maximum score indicating no pain, high satisfaction and good function.  In the present study will be used for the Portuguese language version recently validated by Napoles et al. (2010).
Effectiveness comparison of physiotherapy with balance and gait exercises and physical therapy with strengthening exercises in patients with Parkinson
Effectiveness comparison of the Bobath concept versus muscle strength training to improve motor and non-motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson
Control group (n = 31) with Parkinson
Medical diagnosis of Parkinson
Individuals who perform other therapeutic treatment beyond drug that has change in medication during the study or those with associated diseases, such as neurological disorders, severe heart disease, amputations, cognitive deficits or understanding. Change in the stabilization of the antiparkinsonian doses throughout the study.

Improve balance verified by the force BIOMEC 400 platform (EMG System of Brazil) between pre- and post-intervention variables: amplitude (Hz), velocity (centimeters/second) and the center of pressure of the feet area (cm2). Significance level of 5% is adopted for the analysis. 
4) Improvement of depression assessed by the Geriatric Depression Scale: It is a test for detection depressive symptoms in the elderly, with 15 questions. The result of 5 or more points diagnosing depression. Expected to obtain lower scores than 5 post-intervention assessment. Significance level of 5% is adopted for the analysis.
Urinary incontinence, sexual function and pelvic floor muscle strength during pregnancy and postpartum period
Perineal care during pregnancy and postpartum period: prevention and morbidity related to pelvic floor muscle strength, sexual function and urinary continence
In the experimental group, 55 pregnant women with urinary incontinence in the second trimester of pregnancy will perform, biweekly, six sessions of strengthening the pelvic floor muscles supervised by the research team physiotherapist. Thus, the total duration of the supervised sessions will be three months, between the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. In each session, the pregnant women will perform the exercises program lying down, sitting, and upright, as described below. EXERCISE 1: Steer stretching exercises individualized for each woman for 10 minutes. EXERCISE 2: Steer 20 rapid contractions with 1-second interval between contractions; repeating the sequence three times. EXERCISE 3: Steer 10 contractions sustained for 6 to 8 seconds, with intervals of 12 to 16 seconds between contractions; repeating the sequence ten times. In the control group, 45 women with urinary incontinence in the second trimester of pregnancy will receive verbal advice by the nurse or midwife who perform the antenatal consultation, accompanied by an explanatory and illustrated brochure on implementing at home a daily exercises program, described following. EXERCISE 1-STRETCHING: lying on the back on the mattress, bring the knees toward the chest, with legs slightly apart, not to compress the belly, and count slowly to 30. EXERCISE 2-LYING on the back, with legs slightly separated and feet flat on the mattress, breathe deeply and exhale: 1) contract and relax the pelvic floor quickly for 20 times and rest, slowly counting to 8 (at the end of pregnancy, resting lying on the left side); repeating this sequence three times; 2) contract the pelvic floor and count slowly to 8; relax, rest, and count slowly until 8 (at the end of pregnancy, resting lying on the left side); repeating this sequence ten times. EXERCISE 3-SITTING on the chair with the back supported and feet on the floor, repeat the same sequence of exercises done in a lying position. 4-EXERCISE 4-STANDING, with arms along the body and feet parallel and slightly apart, repeat the same sequence of exercises done in a lying position. NOTE: The women in the experimental group will receive the same guidance and the brochures to perform the exercises program at home. All women will be evaluated between 34 and 36 gestational weeks as well as 45, 90, and 180 days after childbirth.
Having urinary incontinence during the current pregnancy, until the 24th week; Not having undergone surgery urogenital prior; Not having diseases that can interfere with pelvic floor muscle strength (prolapse of pelvic organ, neurological diseases, diabetes, pelvic injury or spinal); Be 18 years old or more; Having completed elementary school; Having difficulty in understanding Portuguese language or in communication.
Having multiple pregnancy; Having obstetric complications during pregnancy (haemorrhagic syndromes, isthmus-cervical insufficiency, premature labour, recurrent urinary tract infection); Offer resistance against the insertion of the perineometer in the vagina; Not adherence to complete physiotherapy.
The difference in proportion of observed UI between the experimental and control groups at the end of pregnancy was 25,3 percentage points (29.2% versus 54.5%, respectively).
2) The mean of the PFMS in the experimental group increased from 25.8 to 29.1 cmH2O. In the control group, the mean pf the PFMS decreased from 25.7 cm H2O to 23.7 cm H2O.
The effect of toothpaste with active oxygen  in reducing of dental plaque.
 The effect of active oxygen on dental dentifrice in reducing supragingival biofilm:  randomized clinical trial 
It will take 48 students of dentistry for the study aged between 18 and 35 years. These volunteers should be 7 to 10 days without brushing their teeth to develop gingivitis. After gingivitis established,participants are randomly divided into two groups A and B with 24 participants each. Participants in Group A (n = 24) will receive toothpastes containing hydrogen peroxide, sodium perborate, honey, xylitol and lactoferrin and toothbrush. Group B (n = 24) will receive dentifrice containing 0.3% triclosan, 2% copolymer and 0.243% (1.100 ppm) of sodium fluoride and toothbrush. Participants will bruch their teeth only with toothpaste and brush supplied by the study. Participants will come back to follow up the 1st 12 ° and 18 ° week to evaluate the gingival Index and plaque and check the commitment. O study ends after 18 weeks.
 Healthy volunteers; aged between 18 and 35 years; a minimum of 28 teeth; no dental cavities; no  periodontitis and  established gingivitis.
antibiotic therapy three months before the study, using braces, motor difficulty, smoking and lack of commitment to the study
Low plaque scores after using the toothpaste containing hydrogen peroxide, sodium perborate, honey, xylitol and lactoferrin, observed by plaque indice.
Reduction of sites with gingival bleeding observed by scores of Gingival Index.
ketorolac antiinflammatory effect associated with a combination of analgesic tramadol/acetaminophen after third molars surgery
Analgesic effectiveness of oral ketorolac associated with a combination of analgesics tramadol/acetaminophen after impacted third molars surgery: randomized and double-blind clinical trial
51 volunteers with two third molars, with indication for dental extraction, will be selected. Each side from the same patient, to be operated, will be allocated to one of the groups of research: 
-Group ketorolac 10 mg (Group A) - a pill of ketorolac 10 mg will be administered sublingualmente associated to a capsule of inert substance (placebo) to be administered orally one hour before surgery; after taking the first dose, this medication will be repeated every 6 hours for 2 days. 
"
"
Expected outcome: pain intensity.  Patients will be instructed to write down the intensity of pain immediately, 3h, 6h, 9h, 12h, 24h and 48h after surgery on a VAS scale from 0 to 100 mm, in which  0 = no pain and 100 = worst pain possible. The VAS measures will be recorded over the period of research and compiled into a graph of pain (mm) versus time (in hours). The area under the graph (AUC) was measured using the trapezoidal method and recorded as AUC 0-24. This measure makes a global assessment of each patient's  pain experience throughout the investigation time periods. Additionally, the worst measure of pain reported by patients in the trial period will be used to compare the groups. The worst score of pain intensity (obtained in different times) and the area under the graph in the two groups will be compared using a paired Student’s t-test. The comparison between the pain intensity  in different times and groups were performed using an analysis of variance of two factors repeated measure. It was calculated the effect size (average difference), and the 95% confidence intervals.
Expected outcome: Oral surgery self-perception assessment.  This instrument interprets disturbances, perceptions and feelings of the patient during oral surgery. The evaluation of the self-perception of oral surgery has 20 questions to be answered on a scale of 0 (zero) to 10 (ten), where zero is no discomfort and ten the discomfort was extreme. 
Temperature and humidity of the gases in a workstation anesthesia machine
The temperature and humidity of the inhaled gas in an anesthesia workstation  using a low fresh gas flow  with or without thermal insulation or heat and moisture exchanger

Control group: 11 women scheduled for elective open abdominal gynecologic surgery under intravenous general anesthesia will have, during the anesthesia, a mechanical ventilation with a circle breathing system without any device which could influence the temperature and humidity. Temperature and humidity of the inhaled gas were determined close to the tracheal tube. The measurements were made at 10, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after patients` connection to the breathing circuit. 
Heat and moisture exchanger group: 11 women scheduled for elective open abdominal gynecologic surgery under intravenous general anesthesia will have, during the anesthesia, a mechanical ventilation with a circle breathing system with a heat and moisture exchanger device connected next to the tracheal tube. Temperature and humidity of the inhaled gas were determined close to the tracheal tube. The measurements were made at 10, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after patients` connection to the breathing circuit. 
Female gender volunteers; American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status 1 or 2 (healthy or with a controlled disease); body mass index (relation between the weight and the height) between 20 and 30 kg/cm²; scheduled for elective open abdominal gynecologic surgery.
Volunteers with fever; decompensated endocrinologic disease; using drugs that interfere with arterial blood pressure or heart function.
There was no significant rise in absolute humidity between the control group and the thermal insulation group (0.4 mg H2O); but the heat and moisture exchanger group and the heat and moisture exchanger plus thermal insulation group, respectively, achieved significant rises of 2.3 and 4.9 mg H2O/L in comparison to the control group.
There was no significant rise in temperature between the control group and the thermal insulation group (- 0.2 °C); but the heat and moisture exchanger group and the heat and moisture exchanger plus thermal insulation group, respectively, achieved significant rises of 1.1 e 2.6 °C in comparison to the control group.
A Study of JNJ-56021927 Plus Androgen
Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Versus ADT in
56021927PCR3002 - A Phase 3 Randomized, Placebocontrolled, Double-blind Study of JNJ-56021927 Plus Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) Versus ADT in Subjects with Low-volume Metastatic Hormonesensitive Prostate Cancer (mHSPC)
JNJ-56021927 240 mg group (4 tablets of 60 mg); 500 participants; administered once daily orally with or without food; Placebo group(4 tablets); 500 participantes; administered once daily orally with or without food; All participants will receive and remain on a stable regimen of ADT (gonadotropin releasing hormone analog [GnRHa] or surgical castration).
Adenocarcinoma of prostate; if diagnosed greater than or equal to (
Pathological finding consistent with small cell, ductal or neuroendocrine carcinoma of the prostate - Known brain metastases - Lymph nodes as only site of metastasis – Visceral metastasis observed on computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or 
Radiographic Progression-Free Survival (rPFS); up to 76 months;  The rPFS is defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of radiographic progressive disease or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.
Time to Pain Progression; Up to 76 Months; Time to pain progression is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first observation of pain progression
Anti-human globulin Rh D drug from effectiveness from review after vaccination in women with postpartum negative factor blood and with complications risk in newborns
Evaluation of clinical efficacy of Kamrho-D® drug (anti-human globulin Rh D - Panamerican) in postpartum women Rh negative immunization, coombs indirect negative and sensitization risk
Study multicenter, prospective and non-comparative. They will be selected 232 female participants, puerperae with a negative Rh factor. The participants will receive a single dose of the drug (anti-Rh D human immunoglobulin), administered intramuscularly within 72 hours of birth at a concentration of 300 mcg / 2 mL. Participants will be followed for a period of approximately six months after administration of the drug, for verification of their clinical conditions and monitoring of immunization.
Postpartum women who agreed to participate and sign and date back to the Informed Consent (IC);
Postpartum women over the age of 18;
Simultaneously be participating or have participated in another clinical study within the last 12 months;
postpartum women allergy sufferers to any of the components of the formula;
It is hoped that the study drug (anti-Rh D human immunoglobulin) is effective in maintaining the negative result for the consideration of indirect Coombs, 06 months after birth, measured by the indirect Coombs test. The indirect Coombs test uses the agglutination gel method due to its higher sensitivity than the conventional method of agglutination plate. Product efficacy will be assessed by the prevalence of the disease in the study, compared to the data available in the literature (bi-nominal testing)
It is hoped that the study drug is safe for administration to women in the postpartum period. The safety of the drug will be evaluated through quantitative and qualitative parameters (type, frequency and intensity) related adverse events presented by the patients during the study, obtained through clinical, laboratory tests and reports of the participants. The data obtained at the end of the survey will be analyzed and presented to statistical study
Muscle strengthening and aerobic training associated with phototherapy in knee osteoarthritis.
Muscle strengthening and aerobic training associated with Phototherapy in knee osteoarthritis.
Phototherapy: cluster containing 7 visible diodes (630nm) and 7 infrared diodes (850nm), power of each diode 100mW, power of each diode 4J, energy per area 56J, totaling 168J per member. The irradiation time will be 40 seconds per area, with a total time of 120 seconds per member in continuous mode. Phototherapy will be applied in a stationary manner and perpendicular in contact with skin. The application of placebo will be made with the power turned off. For the patient be unaware which group belongs, it will be used a cover that does not allow to see whether the application is active or placebo.
The application sites will be in three areas of the belly of the quadriceps femoris muscles bilaterally. An appointment will be made with 
Patients must present age between 55 and 70 years; osteoarthritis in the knee joint (unilateral or bilateral) lasting at least two years; present pain in three of the following: up and down stairs; kneeling; sitting and standing; running; and remain standing for 2 minutes; rating Kellgren-Lawrence grade II and III; BMI less than 35.
Patients will not be included if they have uncontrolled diabetes mellitus; untreated high blood pressure; neurological deficits (motor or sensory); peripheral neuropathies; are frequent in physical activity; alcoholics; smokers; diagnosis of cancer; fibromyalgia; not to accept the participation in the study.
Pain reduction, verified by an improvement of 3 points in pain numerical scale from pre- and post-intervention; Increased muscle strength, verified by the gain of 30% rated of isokinetic dynamometer pre and post intervention; Improved aerobic capacity, verified by the increase of 15% of the maximum volume of oxygen obtained through the aerobic exercise test pre and post intervention.
Improved quality of life measured by the increase of 25 points in the WHOQOL after 12 weeks of treatment; Decreased metabolic acidosis evaluated by the difference of 2ug/L in blood lactate after 12 weeks of treatment; Improved functionality evaluated by difference of 20 points on the WOMAC questionnaire after 12 weeks of treatment.
Topical formulation containing chamomile microparticles with chitosan: study to assess safety and efficacy.
Topical formulation containing microparticles Chamomilla recutita (L.) Rauschert coated with chitosan: Phase I clinical study
Participants received two pots for daily application in the distal region of the forearm. One pot identified as right forearm and the other identified as left forearm. The pots contained the same formulation, but one of them had the active ingredient of chamomile and the other not. Both the participants and the evaluators did not know which pot containing chamomile. In addition to the control carried out with the formulation without chamomile participants were instructed not to apply any product in the proximal region of the forearm, which was used as a negative control.
Thirty-five volunteers made daily application of a formulation on the right forearm and another formulation on the left forearm. This procedure was performed for 28 days.
Healthy volunteers; older than 18 years; with integrity skin in sites for the application of products; no history of allergic reactions to shrimp, fish or seafood; no history of allergic reactions to any component of chamomile; no history of allergic reactions to components of the formulations.
Volunteers in current treatment with heparin, oral anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents.
Absence of erythema, peeling, itching, burning and pain at the site of application of the formulation during the period of 28 days, assessed by clinical evaluation and objective measurement with Mexameter® MX18 (Courage and Khazaka Electronics Ltd, Koln, Germany).
Increased hydration and skin barrier function assessed by clinical evaluation and objective measurement with Corneometer® CM 825 (Courage & Khazaka, Koln, Germany) and Tewameter® TM 210 (Courage and Khazaka Electronics Ltd, Koeln, Germany). Expected to increase by at least 10% of hydration and improved barrier function.
Use of platelet eyedrops in diabetic patients with dry eye disease.
Use of platelet-rich plasma in diabetic patients with dry eye disease.
Use of platelet-rich drops, done in hemocenter by autologous donation, and used in 12 diabetic patients with moderate to severe dry eye unresponsive to conventional therapy, administered  one drop ever six hours in both  eyes for 1 month.We dont have a control group.
Patients were evaluated weekly until 1 month.
 Diagnose of diabetes following ADA (American Diabetes Association)criteria;moderate or severe dry eye patients with unresponsiveness or a weak response to conventional treatment; having at least a frequent or constant symptom and either a Schirmer test at less than 15mm or a BUT(Break Up Time test) less than 10 seconds. 
 Individuals under 18; mentally disabled; pregnant women; indigenous people and those who are wards of the state. Patients that had keratopathies; use of glaucoma eyedrops; previous rheumatic disease diagnosis. Patients that had contraindicated conditions to be submitted to autologous donation 
Reduction of the symptoms of dry eye, graduated byspecific questionnaire, with decreased frequency of complaints, measured in standardized scale 1-4; and through objective tests Schirmer and tear film break-up time, with gradation 1-4 by the criteria of the Dry Eye Workshop-Delphi panel. Considered improved when when grading after 1 month of treatment is 1 or 2 for both cases.
Not applicable
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia treatment protocol for children and adolescent
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia treatment protocol for children and adolescent GBTLI ALL-2009
After Phase Delayed Consolidation , random draw will be held for two groups of Maintenance Therapy: Intermittent maintenance therapy with 6 -MP (100 mg / m2 / day x 10 , with 11 days rest) associated with MTX (200 mg / m2 IV every 21 days) (Group 1) versus 6-MP (100 mg/m2/day x 10 , with a rest period of 11 days) associated with MTX (200 mg/m2 IV every 21 days , with escalation of 25 mg/m2 as tolerated up to a ceiling MTX dose of 300 mg / m2) (Group 2). The first registered patient occured on December 10, 2009.
The estimated number of patients is 300 in each arm
Will be eligible for this study all patients aged 
Without Informed Consent Term.
ALL patient aged 
Expected outcome: the leukemia-free survival in the group of children with escalated dose of methotrexate during the maintenance phase will be higher than that for the group of children with the fixed dose of methotrexate. The two groups will be randomized prior to the start of the maintenance phase. The leukemia-free survival curves will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, with standard deviation proposed by Greenwood, and compared using the log-rank test. The starting point of observation will be the date of the bone marrow examination in which the morphologic remission of leukemia was observed, ie, percentage of blasts less than 5%. The final observation points will be the recurrence of leukemia in any organ, death in continuous remission, second malignancy or last child consultation date, this being in continuous remission. The Cox regression model will be used for regression equation adjustment to other prognostic factors. It is expected that, by comparing the two groups, there will be a difference in the leukemia-free survival curves between 5% and 10%.
Expected outcome: the cumulative incidence of leukemic relapse for the group of children with the escalated dose of methotrexate during the maintenance phase will be inferior than that for the group with fixed dose of methotrexate. The curves of cumulative incidence of leukemic relapse will be estimated with adjustments for competing risks of other events, such as death in remission or second malignancy and will be compared by the Gray's test. The starting point of observation will be the date of the bone marrow examination in which the morphologic remission of leukemia was observed, ie, percentage of blasts less than 5%. The end point of observation will be leukemic relapse in any organ or the last child consultation date, this being in continuous remission. Death in continuous remission or diagnosis of a second malignancy will be considered competing events. The Fine-Gray regression model will be used for regression equation adjustment to other prognostic factors. It is expected that, by comparing the two groups, there will be a difference in the cumulative incidence curves of leukemic relapse between 5% and 10%.
study to the evaluate non-inferiority Compared two local anesthetic for orthopedic procedures on the lower limbs
Phase III study to evaluate the noninferiority of levobupivacaine with excess 50% (levobupivacaine S75: R25) heavy compared to racemic bupivacaine (bupivacaine S50: R50) heavy in spinal anesthesia for lower limb orthopedic procedures
Experimental group: 60 women or men who have an indication for surgery of the lower limbs receive the anesthetic drug levobupivacaine at a single dose of 3 mL, which will be administered via intrathecal (spinal). 
Control group: 60 women or men who have an indication for surgery of the lower limbs receive the anesthetic drug levobupivacaine at a single dose of 3 mL, which will be administered via intrathecal (spinal).
Patients who agree to participate in the study and signed the consent form, both sexes, aged between 18 and 80 years inclusive, ASA I or ASA II with indication for spinal anesthesia for orthopedic surgery of the lower limbs
Absolute or relative contraindications to spinal anesthesia ; intolerance or hypersensitivity to local anesthetics or components of the formula , spinal cord injuries , peripheral neuropathy or other neurological disorders that lead to disturbances of sensation and / or motor function , dementia , mental retardation and other important cognitive changes ; obesity with body mass index ? 35 or difficulty in executing the puncture ; anatomical difficulty column in the Investigator
Latency time evaluation (waiting) for sensory block by the time interval spent between the withdrawal of the needle at the end of the local anesthetic injection and the absence of response to sensory impulse.
Motor block degree evaluation by modified Bromage scale; Motor block duration measured by the time interval between the withdrawal of the needle after the puncture and the return to level 0 in the modified Bromage scale; Cardiovascular safety evidenced by the incidence and severity of changes Blood pressure and heart rate measurements automatically by the device; Anesthesia failure: classification will be evaluated in total failure or partial failure identified by the absence or presence of sensory and motor aspects); Presence of adverse events identified by means of unexpected effects.
Oral splint and counselling for the treatment of chronic facial pain
The efficacy of occlusal stabilization appliance associated to counselling in the management of myofascial pain chronic and in the improvement of the quality of life of patients with temporomandibular disorders
Study Group Intervention
The reversible occlusal therapy by stabilizing appliance used by patients in Study Group shall be made by the same dental technician and will be adjusted by the same dentist, therapist represented by the researcher. Will be played simultaneous occlusal contacts in centric relation position and malocclusion by canine and protrusive guides. The patients will be assessed at weekly intervals (between the query and the following board installation) and then biweekly during the period of 90 days. There shall be a gradual reduction in the daily use of the plate, and the first two weeks the device is indicated for 24 hours a day, being removed only for eating and cleaning. At each visit clinical follow-up, shall be established a gradual reduction in the time of use so that the last three weeks of treatment are achieved 8h/day use.
All subjects participated in this study volunteers by signing the consent form. Inclusion criteria are as follows:
female subjects;
history of psychiatric disorders or treatment for neurological or psychological disorders;
volunteers with severe intellectual or physical disability that would hinder the collection of data;
Assessment of Quality of Life related to TMD, which will be investigated before and after institution of therapy in each group. The comparison of scores in the two periods indicate a possible change in the index of quality of life. The instrument used for this will be the profile of the Oral Health Impact (OHIP-14).
Evaluation of physical symptoms return every biweekly of patients, which will verify oscillations of physical symptoms that would not be featured in the principal moments of estudo.A measuring the intensity of spontaneous orofacial pain is obtained by means of Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).
Effect of Aerobic Training on Blood Pressure Levels of Hypertensive Subjects
Effects of Aerobic High Intensity Training on Blood Pressure Levels of Resistant Hypertensive
Experimental Group: 50 resistant hypertensive subjects, high intensity interval aerobic training for 8 weeks, with frequency of 3 exercise sessions per week, each session with 60 minutes.

Control Group: 50 resistant hypertensive subjects, moderate intensity continuous aerobic training for 8 weeks, with frequency of 3 exercise sessions per week, each session with 60 minutes.
Age between 40 and 60 years; men or women; body mass index under 30 kg / m²; able to participate in exercise; no regular physically active in the last 4 months
Smoking; with history of ischemic stroke or hemorrhagic; or CHD; or obstructive pulmonary disease or chronic restrictive; or diabetes mellitus; or chronic atrial fibrillation
Control in blood pressure levels, assess by the method of Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM) and oscilometric method (FINOMETER and DIXTAL), from decrease of blood pressure in measurements pre and post-intervention with physical exercise.
Improve in autonomic modulation, assess by espectral analysis,verified by incresead of 10% parasimpathetic modulation and/or by decrease of 10% of sympathetic modulation in measurements pre and post-intervention with physical exercise.
Effect of diacerein in patients with diabetes treated with  antihyperglycemic drugs
Effect of diacerein in metabolic control and acute inflammatory markers in patients with type 2 diabetes using andidiabetic agents.


intervention group- Diacerein 50mg 1 tablet via oral twice a day, for 90 days; other medications should be maintainded.Participant will take 1 capsule at lunch and 1 capsule at dinner for 12 weeks
control group - placebo 1 tablet via oral twice a day, for 90 days, 1 capsule at lunch and 1 capsule at dinner;other medications should be maintainded.
35 years old and older; HbA1c 
Pregnant and lactating women; Chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis; Use of anti-inflammatory drugs for more than 5 days in the last 3 months; Previous diagnosis of pancreatitis; Hypersensitivity to Reina (active metabolite of diacerein) and other antraquinonic derivatives (laxative); Diabetic Nephropathy and \ or kidney failure; Liver disease (transaminases
The outcome is the delta of plasma concentration of glycated hemoglobin ( final value - baseline value, in %), measured by immunoturbidimetric assay in plasma samples.   The  between groups expected difference is 1.1%.             
Delta of fasting glucose (mg/dL); enzymatic and colorimetric method. Levels of acute phase inflammatory markers: C-reactive protein, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, TNF-alpha (Luminex® Human Ultrasensitive ).  Delta lipid profile:  plasma concentration of total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides.  Adverse events rate.
Physiotherapy resources in the treatment of localized fat
Electrothermalphototherapy agents in the treatment of the Body Disharmony Syndrome
This is a prospective randomized clinical study, exploratory, quantitative approach, performed in accordance with Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) guidelines (SCHULZ, ALTMAN and HOHER, 2010). The study will follow the resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council. It will be recorded in the Platform Brazil and submitted to the Ethics Committee of the Health Sciences Sector Platform and Rebec. After approval by the Ethics Committee will be selected: women; aged 18 to 40; sedentary; with the presence of fat located in the abdominal area.
Women eligible for the study will be invited to participate through verbal invitation, publicity posters and dissemination electronically. Those who agree to participate will sign the consent form Clarified and the Image Use Authorization Agreement. Any questions regarding the study, will be clarified at any time of the study and all interventions will be carried out in Physiotherapy Course laboratory in Sector of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Parana.
Healthy volunteers; women; aged 18 to 40; sedentary; with the presence of fat located in the abdominal area.
Women in diet; with smoking and drinking habits; women using drugs for weight loss, steroids, progesterone and diuretics; pregnant women; mothers less than one year, women who have electronic monitoring; women with metal implants in the pelvic area; women who are in dermatofuncional treatment on site; surgery and / or radiation therapy for less than 6 months of the abdominal / pelvic area; women suffering from lymphatic system disorders, thrombophlebitis, acute infection, central nervous system diseases, tumors and diabetes, abnormal sensitivity.
Reduction of abdominal subcutaneous fat verified by ultrasound from the realization of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention.
Reduction of subcutaneous fat through the finding adipometria from a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention.
Use of medication for preventing diabetes in obese pregnant women
Use of metformin for the prevention of gestational diabetes mellitus in obese pregnant women
Group Intervention: 104 pregnant women who will be randomized to 20 weeks of gestation, with a body mass index equal to or greater than 30 kg / m2, aged less than 18 years with screening for gestational diabetes mellitus in early negative pregnancy. They will be subjected to treatment with metformin hydrochloride use 500 mg orally after breakfast and dinner daily, until the end of pregnancy. All pregnant women in the study will receive standard monitoring being met by the nutritionist, nurses, physiotherapists and obstetricians. Control Group: 104 pregnant women who will be randomized to 20 weeks of gestation, with a body mass index equal to or greater than 30 kg / m2, aged less than 18 years with screening for gestational diabetes mellitus in early negative pregnancy. All pregnant women in the study will receive standard monitoring being met by the nutritionist, nurses, physiotherapists and obstetricians.
With obesity diagnosis of pregnant women will be selected according to the criteria of the World Health Organization with BMI or greater than 30 kg / m2; aged over 18 years; singleton pregnancy; with screening for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) at the beginning of the negative pregnancy; gestational age less than 20 weeks; no pathology that interferes with glucose metabolism; no hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride or important drug allergy; history or presence of liver disease; renal or gastrointestinal or other conditions that interfere with the absorption, distribution, excretion or metabolism of the drug.
Losses following are deleted; intolerance drugs; desire of the pregnant woman; presence of risk to the fetus; allergy to metformin, mother
Reduction of cases of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in obese pregnant women who have made the use of metformin hydrochloride, 2 times a day (breakfast and dinner), the realization of the reduction will be performed by biochemical analysis through oral test of glucose tolerance (OGTT ) to be held over the gestational trimesters. It expects a 35% effectiveness in reducing cases of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus which will be proven through statistical tests and comparing the concentrations in the OGTT test and control groups.
Decreased neonatal hypoglycemia in infants of obese pregnant women who have made the use of metformin hydrochloride during pregnancy. For evaluation of this variable will be held plasma glucose dosage of newborns according to protocol guidelines of the Brazilian Society of Pediatrics. For realization of the expected outcomes will be performed statistical tests and comparing the concentrations of plasma glucose in babies of mothers of test and control groups.
Effect of expanding motor opportunities at the home environment in  infants with risk for developmental delay  
Effect of a goal-oriented training with activities and toys at the home environment of infants with environmental and biological risks to delay on neuromotor development
During the intervention phase, parents / caregivers will receive an illustrated booklet; guidelines on how to carry out the activities; and 03 toy (stacking blocks, rattle and book) suitable for age.

The activities should be performed daily by parents / caregivers for 4 weeks, in their own homes. Each activity should be performed at least once a day (at least 30 minutes/day), continuously or discontinuously,  respecting the times and limits of each infant. 
Infants with social and environmental risks; infants with biological risk; low socioeconomic status; low parental education; both gender; age at 6 to 8 months old.
Infants with adequate motor development; infants who do not appear in the assessments.
Infants will present improvement on score  (at least 10 %) of the motor and cognitive development by the global motor/cognitive- composite score of Bayley III.
The infants will present improvement of at least 10 % on affordances at the home environment by AHEMD-IS.Moreover, the infants will present more frequency and duration time on exploratory behavior, such as to press, toggle, shake, spin, hold,  and transfer, analysed by the Datavyu software.
Eteitos training on ramps on the walking pattern of individuals who have suffered stroke
Effects of gait training on sloping surfaces in the gait of individuals with chronic hemiparesis - randomized controlled trial
CONTROL GROUP (12 subjects) was performed in gait training treadmill with partial weight support without inclination (slope 0%), EXPERIMENTAL GROUP (12 subjects) was realziado in gait training treadmill with partial weight support, but this the treadmill group was diurante cm all the training level of inclination of 10%. The two groups performed 12 training sessions for four weeks (three sessions per week). Each session lasted 20 minutes.
Time after stroke: more than six months, One-sided hemiparesis,No heart disease, No orthopedic impairment or other neurological impairment that may change the gait, Can mind simple verbal commands, Can wlak anlone or with canes and have being classified by functional ambulation category (FAC) at levels 3 to 5, Spasticity  dagreemild to moderate  in the affected lower limb with levels of classification between 0 and 2 in the Ashworth spasticity scale modified,  70 years Maximum age. 
Heart frequency increase more than 75% of the maximum or have any other general instability  during training that may mean risk for the same practice, Lack of training sessions to more than two, when they are consecutive, or more than three, when they are changed.
Angular space and time variables of gait assessed by kinemetry,
Motor function assessed by Fugl Meyer scale
Evaluation of the macula by optical tomography through surgical mycoscope in patients with media opacities
Evaluation by Optical Coherence Tomography Intraoperative through Rescan 700 coupled to OPMI Lumera 700 in patients with opaque media.
OCT Rescan 700 is attached to the optical microscope and therefore a noninvasive examination, being only a photograph of the retina where we observed the anatomical aspect of all layers of the retina and is very important for patients with maculopathies. As there is no need for physical contact with the eyeball, it is a very safe examination. The examination will be performed in 50 patients only once during Vitrectomy and cataract surgery due to vitreous hemorrhage and opacity of means that would already perform the surgery independent of the study.
 Patients with patients with vitreous hemorrhage or cataract ;patients with vitreous hemorrhage without clinical improvement in 60 days when it was not possible to obtain images with OCT preoperatively;  patients with  associatedl vítreoretinal disease the presence of cataract indication of combined surgery ( cataract surgery and vitrectomy ) without preoperative OCT
Absence of posterior vitrectomy indication pars plana ;the presence of preoperative OCT in the last three months before surgery ;failure to obtain the images in the perioperative period 
Detailed assessment of the anatomical status of the macula and the presence of traction on vitreoretinal surface with the per operative OCT showing the incidence of macular anatomical changes.
Measure of the increased surgical time.
Computer games on elderly socialization
Virtual Reality games on elderly socialization


A minimum of 46 elderly, students of a informatics course, will participate in the study. Initially, the students will have 8 usual informatics classes in the institution where they were enrolled spontaneouly. Then, during the next 8 classes (from class 9 to class 16) they will practise 10 minutes of virtual reality games, as part of the class.
All the elderly over 60 years, of both sexes, spontaneously enrolled in the informatics beginner class for seniors of the Reference certer of elderly in Ribeirão Pires.
Those who have less than 75% of frequency in the classes between the assessments and/or do not complete the three moments of assessment. Individuals with some motor impairment of the upper limbs, which prevents them to practice the games, will also be excluded.
Improvement on self-perceived loneliness, representing the socialization level of the elderly,  comparing baseline to the first 8 usual computer classes and after the 8 classes with virtual reality games. This will be verified through the decrease in the score of SELSA-S and ULS-6 scales. 
Decrease in time of response and increase in performance during the practise of virtual reality games. Both of them are recorded by the game software. Performance will be considered as an increase in score and number of correct responses and a decrease in the wrong responses.
Effectiveness of topical use of flouride and toothbrushing in the control of white spot carious lesions.
Effect evaluation 
FIRST PERIOD
The present study was divided into seven periods. In the first of these, 32 patients who needed their four first premolars extracted were intentionally selected. These participants received a 90-gram tube of non-fluoride toothpaste, to be used for seven days prior to the cementation of the bands (Cariogenic site). 
Healthy volunteers; between 12 and 18 years old; who needed as part of the orthodontic treatment of extraction of the first two upper premolars and first two lower premolars; they were healthy and without damage to the labial surface; who were not participating in a preventive program involving the use of fluoride.
Volunteers who were not wearing orthodontic braces; Volunteers using fluoridated products.

At the end of 28 days , all specimens received cariogenic site showed enamel demineralization,  that is, developed white lesions of enamel, a significant difference ( p < 0.001) between the values ??of clinical examination using ICDAS II index and Fluorescence Laser DIAGNOdent® , baseline and 28 days after the cariogenic challenge.
In our study, there was no siginificative drop-out (Only 6%).
Effects of Cervical Manipulation on Upper Limb Motor Control in Subjects with Neck Pain
The Effect of Motor Control Deficits and Physical Therapy Interventions on the Grip Force Control
The subjects will be randomized into two arms, parallel, by block randomization generated using a software. In the experimental group (cervical manipulation) (n = 15) individuals will receive a manipulation technique in cervical rotation, at high velocity and low amplitude, directed to the facet joint level between 5th and 6th cervical vertebra. In the control group (placebo) (n = 15) subjects will receive a sham neck manipulation technique. A passive neck rotation will be performed, without reaching the motion barrier, not producing the cavitation phenomenon(audible phenomenon characteristic of manipulation). Interventions will be implemented in a single session and will last less than 1 minute for both groups.

Assessments of outcome measures will be conducted immediately, pre and post intervention, by an blinded assessor to the interventions.
History of three or more neck pain episodes in the past three months.


Previous history of rheumatic disease, cervical myelopathy, tumors, central or peripheral neurological disorders. History of major trauma, fracture or surgery in the neck, shoulder and/or upper limb. Signs of nerve root compression as important muscle weakness affecting the upper limbs, reduction or loss of biceps and triceps reflexes, decreased sensation in the dermatomes of the upper limb. Red flags contraindicating cervical manipulation.
Pressure pain threshold, assessed by a digital pressure algometer, measured in the region of the upper trapezius muscle (TS), pre-and post-intervention.
Pressure pain threshold, assessed by a digital pressure algometer, measured in the region of medium deltoid muscle  (MD) and the lateral epicondyle (LE), pre-and post-intervention. 
Effects of physical exercise and recreational activities in the memory loss of Primary Health Care elderly users.
Effects of an aerobic, strength and cognitive training program on the mild cognitive decline of Public Primary Health Care elderly users in Porto Alegre
The 136 participants will be randomized into four groups with 34 people each: (1) only physical activity - FAG; (2) physical activity and cognitive training - PCG; (3) only cognitive training - CTG and (4) control - COG. The participants that will be assigned to one of three training groups (FAG, PCG and CTG) will undertake a program of physical and/or cognitive exercises for 24 weeks, with two weekly sessions 60 minutes each). The COG will maintain their usual routine, without engaging in any type of additional physical and/or cognitive activity. The cognitive training will involve activities that seek to stimulate different mental processes such as perception, language, attention and memory. As for the exercise training, the volume and the intensity thereof will be adjusted every week according to the conditions of each participant.
Both genders volunteers; aged 60 years and over; independent at activities of daily living; able to walk independently to the location of training and testing; mild cognitive impairment detected by the Addenbrooke Cognitive Examination (2007 revised version).
Severe psychiatric disorder or traumatic brain injury; use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors; current substance abuse; important communication deficiencies; simultaneous participation in other research studies; regular practice of physical activity (at least once a week in the last three months); physical therapy treatment in the last three months; physical and functional limitations that might prevent the practice of physical activity; conditions that promote disabilities; visual deficits that prevent reading; recurrent vertigo; uncontrolled hypertension.
An average increase of 1.4 points on the score of the Mini-Mental State Examination when comparing measurements made before and after the six month intervention.
A 15% mean increase in measurements performed with a Jamar® mechanic dynamometer at the end of the intervention, compared to the values found before the intervention with the same instrument.
Land and aquatic strength exercises for obese old women with muscle weakness.
Land-based versus aquatic resistance therapeutic exercises for old women with sarcopenic obesity: a randomized trial.
Group 1: 12 women will perform land-based resistance exercises 

Group 2:12 women will perform resistance exercises in therapeutic pool.
Female gender; age from 65 to 80 years; obesity (body mass index equal or more than 30 kg/m2); sarcopenia (hand-grip strength equal or lower than 21 kilograms)
Physical, sensory or cognitive disfunctions that do not allow participation in the exercise programs; cardiovascular, articular or metabolic disease in acute phase or not clinically controlled;urinary or fecal incontinence; contagious dermatologic diseases; open scars; physical therapy for lower limbs; fracture or surgery for lower limbs in the last 12 months; severe venous insufficience.
Observed outcomes: no changes in this outcome
Observed outcomes: no changes in this outcome
Benefit of physical therapy, yoga and music therapy for patients with Parkinson
Effects of physiotherapy associated with yoga and music therapy in Parkinson´s disease

Control group: It will consist of 10 individuals in the early stages of Parkinson
Individuals of both sexes; aged 40 to 70 years; diagnosed with Parkinson
Other neurological disorders as heart disease and / or severe cognitive impairment that could affect the understanding and / or to indicate the completion of the exercise.
Improved cognitive-motor clinical condicion in the period of 06 months, verified by standardized rating scales on the disease progression (UPDRS - Scale Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating), cognition (MMSE - Mini Mental State Examination and MoCA - Montreal Cognitive Scale), balance (Berg scale), mobility (get up and go test without and with tasks associated) and functional independence (PAS - Parkinson activity scale).. From the observation of a range of at least 5% in the pre and post measurements intervention is contact that the outcome occurred.
Secondary outcomes are not expected 
Impact of exercise on the urinary control muscles in women with Multiple Sclerosis
Impact of pelvic floor training in the treatment of symptoms of lower urinary tract in women with multiple sclerosis
The medical history will be evaluated and the degree of neurological impairment of patients will be determined by the Expanded Disability Status Scale in Multiple Sclerosis - EDSS. Patients also respond to the questionnaire for Bladder Evaluation Overactive - OAB V8. The women selected will be subjected to three study groups that will undergo the same evaluation process before and after the research: the control group (n = 20), the orientation group (n = 20) and treatment group (n = 20).
After using the EDSS and OAB- V8 questionnaire will be used Quality of Life Questionnaire Qualiveen and evaluation of pelvic floor muscle function according to the PERFECT scheme through Graduation muscle strength and urodynamic study made exclusively by a doctor .
Women diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis;  age over 20 years; score on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) lower or equal to 6.5; presence of symptoms of urinary dysfunction for at least six months.
Refusal to participate; exacerbation of symptoms  of Multiple Sclerosis during treatment; cognitive decline;  imposibility to attend the treatment sessions.
Significant improvement of lower urinary tract in women with MS within six months. The method used will be through the Variance Analysis test for repeated measures under p <0.05 and statistical power above 80%. After the pre and post intervention statistical analysis will be performed using SAS software (Statistical Analysis System). A program of this software, called fpower, will be used to determine the sample size. Establishing 5% alpha and 90% power. To compare initial measures between groups, the Mann-Whitney test will be used and ANOVA for repeated measures will be used to compare the results of the treatments according to the time and group.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Benefits of aerobic exercise on the cardiovascular system in patients with coronary artery disease.
Influence of interval aerobic exercise training on cardiorespiratory and metabolic variables and inflammatory markers in patients with different level of coronary artery lesions
Trained group: The trained subjects will be divided into two groups, 17 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD-T) and 17 patients with cardiovascular risk fator (RF-T). Both groups will perfom exercise training program individualized and supervised by research, consisted of three sessions per week (on alternate days) over a 16-week period. The exercise training intensity levels will be determined from the percentage (70%, 80%, 100% and 110%) of the heart rate (bpm) and oxygen uptake (VO2 mL.kg-1.min-1) attained at the ventilatory anaerobic threshold in the cardiopulmonary exercise test. Each session will be divided into three steps, as follows. Phase 1: 10 min of warm-up including stretching and low-intensity exercise. Phase 2: exercise training will perform on a stationary cycle ergometer (divided into 6 steps): Step 1: exercise at 80% of the VAT (5 min); Steps 2 and 4: exercise at 100% of the VAT (5 min and progression up to 10 min); Steps 3 and 5: exercise at 110% of the VAT (3 min and progression up to 5 min); Step 6: exercise at 70% of the VAT (5 min).
Volunteers men, aged 35 and 65 years with coronary artery disease udergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (
Patients with frequent extrasystoles, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, unstable angina, osteomuscular disorders, diabetes mellitus – users of insulin, renal failure, and sequelae of stroke.
heart rate variability increased, after exercise training program, evidenced by predominance parasympathetic modulation and reduction sympathetic modulation. Improvement of exercise capacity (after exercise training program) at ventilatory anaerobic threshold. Decreased high sensitivity C-reactive protein levels. 
Exercise training based on ventilatory anaerobic threshold has been an important physiological parameter for accurate prescription of training intensity as well as for the development of novel therapeutic strategies against CAD and the prevention of cardiovascular disease.
Analysis of microorganisms existing in denture wearers before and after the use of two adhesives
Oral microbiota analysis of conventional complete dentures wearers before and after the use of two adhesives
Participants (n=20) will receive new dentures. After a period of adjustment (30 days), the research subjects will be submitted to an initial examination (collection of dental plaque and saliva for analysis of microorganisms), and then randomly assigned into two protocols: Protocol 1- use of adhesive 1 during the first 15 days, followed by no adhesive for the next 15 days, and subsequent use of adhesive 2 for 15 days; Protocol 2- use of adhesive 2 during the first 15 days,  followed by no adhesive for the next 15 days, and subsequent use of adhesive 1 for another 15 days. Four collections of oral microorganisms will be performed (saliva and dental plaque in upper denture)
Adult individuals; receptive and mentally agile; good understanding of spoken Portuguese; with availability to attend evaluations during the experimental phase; alveolar ridges with normal resilience and volume
Systemic debilitations; use of antibiotics at the moment of inclusion in the study and for 3 months prior to the first assessment or sample collection; previous use of denture adhesives
Verification of the difference in microorganisms in the mouth of denture wearers when there is use of prosthetic adhesives, using the HOMINGS analysis (allow to identify wide variety of microorganisms) in 20 denture wearers, from the finding of a range of at least 5% between the control analysis and after use of adhesives by the participants.
No difference of microorganisms in the mouth of denture wearers when there is use of prosthetic adhesives, using the HOMINGS analysis (allow to identify wide variety of microorganisms) in 20 denture wearers, from the finding of a range of at least 5% between the control analysis and after use of adhesives by the participants.
Does the videogame training increases the power of the female pelvic floor muscles?
Does the Virtual Rehabilitation Training increases contractility of the female pelvic floor muscles?
Conventional Pelvic floor muscles training group:30 participants, based on abdominal-pelvic exercise, interspersed with Kegel exercises (fast and sustained perineal contractions), supervised, 30-minute, held two sessions a week, for a period of 10 sessions, amounting to 5 weeks.
Virtual rehabilitation pelvic floor muscles training group: 30 participants, focus on abdominal-pelvic enclosure, for conducting exercises of pelvic mobility with the patient sitting on the Wii Balance Board plataform, performed unpublished protocol using virtual games by Wii, supervised, 30-minute, held two sessions per week, for a period of 10 sessions, totaling 5 weeks.
Women aged from 40 years.
Presence of urinary tract infection; having performed previously, pelvic floor muscles training supervised by a professional health; Carriers myopathies and diseases with known alteration of collagen; Carriers neurological abnormalities, cognitive disorders and physical limitations that preclude participation in the study; presence of dystopia of grade III or IV found by physical examination by Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification System - POP-Q.

Improvement in contractility of the pelvic floor muscles assessed by vaginal dynamometry after the virtual rehabilitation (10 sessions); Understand what the relationship between the normal pelvic posture (assessed by photogrammetry), contractility of the pelvic floor muscles (assessed by vaginal dynamometry) and transversus abdominis / internal oblique (assessed using surface electromyography) in women from 40 years (10 sessions).
Improvement of urogynecological symptoms evaluated using specific and validated questionnaires before and after the intervention (10 sessions); Improvement of pelvic posture assessed by photogrammetry before and after the intervention (10 sessions); Improvement of co-activation between pelvic floor muscles and transversus abdominis / internal oblique muscles, evaluated, respectively, by vaginal dynamometry and surface electromyography before and after the intervention; Improvement of vaginal dystopias evaluated using the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification System - POP-Q, after the intervention (10 sessions).
Rehabilitation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Rehabilitation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - functional, cognitive and epigenetic aspects
All patients (60) will participate in pulmonary rehabilitation program (PRP), carried out in accordance with the proposal by the American Thoracic Society / Eropean Respiratory Society for six months, three times a week, lasting 90 min. The PRP is composed of aerobic exercise (treadmill for 40 minutes, 60% of the maximum working load and load progression according to the reported sensation of dyspnea in modified Borg scale); muscular workout located in the lower limbs (major muscle groups related to walking, 2 to 3 sets of 6 to 12 repetitions with workload between 50-85% of 1 maximal repetition) and upper (high number of repetitions, 50% of 1RM on shafts diagonal) and educational guidance in relation to COPD.
Patients with moderate to very severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease;  of both genders; presenting clinical stability in the month prior to the beginning of the protocol and aged 40 years or more.
Current smoking; associated diseases that preclude the achievement of some of the evaluations of the study or that limit the progression of training, such as orthopedic, neurological and heart disease; and not signed the free and informed consent form.
Minimal improvement of 25 meters on the distance walked on the six-minute walk test. As recommended by the American Thoracic Society (2002), the six-minute walk test will be conducted in a 30-meter flat corridor, demarcated every meter. The individual will be guided to walk as far as possible, with standardized verbal encouragement repeated every minute: (1st minute) "You are doing well"; (2nd minute) "Keep this rhythm"; (3rd minute) "You're doing well, we're halfway through the test", (4th minute) "Keep walking, it's only two minutes"; (5th minute) "Is everything okay? "The test is already at the end." The patient will be allowed to discontinue the test when necessary without interrupting the test.Heart rate, peripheral oxygen saturation, and dyspnea index will be measured at the beginning, every minute and at the end of the test. Blood pressure will be checked only at the beginning and end of the tests, with the individual sitting. There will be two tests, with a rest interval of 30 minutes between them. The predicted values ??will be calculated from the equation proposed by Britto et al (2013). Participants will be tested at the beginning of the protocol, after 24 and 48 sessions. The latter being the moment of discharge. Individuals will be invited to take a new test after 6 and 12 months of discharge. An increase of at least 25 meters in the distance covered in the test will be considered as a parameter of improvement (Holland et al, 2010).
Level of functional limitation. The subjects will respond to the LCADL scale, which was developed and validated for patients with COPD, with the objective of evaluating the level of functional limitation of these patients, That is, the limitation to perform ADL. It has been translated and validated in Brazil and it is a scale composed of four domains related to personal care, domestic activities, physical activities and leisure. S participants will be tested at the beginning of the protocol, after 24 and 48 sessions. The latter being the moment of discharge. Individuals will be invited to take a new test after 6 and 12 months of discharge. A significance level of 5% will be adopted in the difference between the means of the different moments of evaluation.
Evaluation of mandibular movements and chewing in women with face pain
Influence of education and self-care modalities on pain and function related to Chronic Temporomandibular Disorder: clinical trial, randomized, double-blinded, controlled
Group Experimental 1: 30 women with chronical pain on face and temporomandibular joint will be evaluated in three moments, with an interval of 30 days among them: 1st appointment: education (information about chronical pain and temporomandibular joint disordes), 2nd. appointment: education and sel-care (thermoterapy, self-massage and mandibular exercises), 3rd. appointment: education and self-care instructions revised.
Group Experimental 2: 30 women with chronical pain on face and temporomandibular joint will be evaluated in three moments, with an interval of 30 days among them: 1st appointment: education and self-care, 2nd. appointment: education and sel-care
Females, aged between 18 and 70 years, presenting chronic pain related to chronic temporomandibular disorder; not being in treatment for this painful condition; not be starting any treatment for any other painful condition such as fibromyalgia; back pain; neck pain or rheumatic changes; natural teeth or fixed prosthesis with posterior contention; be capable to reading and writing
Using removable partial denture; using complete denture or implantssuported fixed; debilitating systemic diseases as Parkinson or Alzheimer; use of a cardiac pacemaker; absence of severe malocclusions as crossbite; anterior open bite; midline deviation
Mean difference of pain, determined by means of an algometer and by responses to a questionnaire after each evaluation period of the study
Mean difference of mandibular movement amplitude and masticatory performance, determined by specific equipments
Effectiveness and safety of colchicin crema 0,5% versus photodynamic therapy  in treating areas with precancerous lesions
Effectiveness and safety colchicine cream 0,5% versus photodynamic therapy wuith mehtyl aminolevulinate in treatment of skin field cancerization: a randomized clinical trialE
A study of 36 patients, who will be randomly receive one of the following on each forearm, forearms totaling 72 (36 with colchicine and 36 with photodynamic therapy) .The patients will be informed about the research protocol and sign the consent form .
After, they will be assessed through a range of photoaging and actinic keratoses counting scale.
Sign the Statement of Consent. Age above 18 years of both sexes. Provide at least three and no more than ten clinically compatible with actinic keratosis lesions on each forearm.
Lesions in fewer than three or greater than ten in each forearm.
Selected treatment area that has atypical clinical appearance or other extensive dermatoses forearms . 
Complete clearance rate of AK when treated with colchicine and MAL- PDT in T60 , ie , the absence of actinic keratoses on clinical examination after 60 days of treatment with colchicine or MAL -PDT , by the number of actinic keratoses count , evaluation the severity score of actinic keratoses and photoaging scale.
Partial clearance rate of AK when treated with colchicine and MAL -PDT compared T0 to T60 , with expected reduction of at least 30 % in the amount of actinic keratoses . Modification of histologic atypia profile between treatments comparing T0 to T60 , made ??by histopathology . Modification of the expression of p53 and Ki67 between treatments comparing T0 to T60 , waiting for reducing the expression of p53 and Ki67 after the intervention. adverse effects assessment related to the proposed treatment : impact of local events and severity . Emergence of non-melanoma skin tumors by clinical evaluation. Tolerability through a questionnaire applied to the patient.
Effect of creatine associated with a resistance training on muscle mass, strength and physical fitness in elderly with loss of muscle mass
Effect of creatine supplementation associated with a resistance training program on muscle mass, strength and physical performance in sarcopenic elderly
Experimental group: 14 subjects supplemented with 5 grams creatine monohydrate per day after lunch, when there is no resistance training, or 5 grams of creatine plus 100 grams of maltodextrin immediately after resistance training. Placebo group: 14 subjects supplemented with 5 grams of maltodextrin per day after lunch, when there is no resistance training, or 100 grams of maltodextrin immediately after resistance training. The supplementation will be administered during 12 weeks. Resitance training will happen 3 times a week for 12 weeks. 
Between 60 and 80 years of age.
Vegetarian; Have taken any ergogenic aid in the last six months prior to study initiation; ingest any medication that is able to affect muscle growth or the ability to train intensely during the study, such as statins, muscle relaxants, anti-inflammatory; be involved in restricting food programs; be involved in physical training programs; have received contrast or performed radioactive procedure during the last year; is diagnosed with any kidney, liver and heart diseases.
Reduction in interleukin 6 concentrations assessed by by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), based on the statement of a difference of at least 5% after intervention. 
Reduction in leptin concentrations assessed by by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), based on the statement of a difference of at least 5% after intervention. 
Clinical performance of two types of dental restorations: atraumatic and conventional
Randomized clinical trial of Class II ART restorations in deciduous teeth, with and without proximal retentions, and in permanent teeth in comparison with composite resin 
The study is parallel group, in primary teeth, with a test group (ART restorations with proximal retention), and a control group (ART restorations without proximal retention) for a total of 147 restorations for each group involved. For that ART restorations will be made with or without additional retention using Equia glass ionomer cement.
For the permanent teeth , there will be a test group (ART restorations with proximal retention), and a control group (class II conventional composite resin restorations)in a total of 134 restorations for each stakeholder group.  ART restorations with additional retention will be made for the test group and for the control group resin composite restorations  will be made  using the Z-350 XT resin.
For Hypothesis I the children aged between 4 and 7 year with good general health and having class II cavities in deciduous teeth without pulp involvement or pain will be included.
For Hypothesis II the children aged between 8 and 12year; adolescent and adult between 13 and 44 year with good general health and 1 until 4 class II cavities  in permanent teeth without pulp involvement or pain will be included.
For Hypothesis I the children presenting behavioral problems; teeth with signs of sepsis, mobility or paranormal occlusion habits and absence of contacts with opposing or neighboring teeth will be excluded.
For Hypothesis II the children; adolescents and adults presenting teeth with signs of sepsis; mobility; more than 4 class II cavities in permanent teeth or paranormal occlusion habits and absence of contacts with opposing or neighboring teeth will be excluded.
The criteria for this evaluation will be the Atraumatic Restorative Treatment (ART) and the US Public Health Assessment System (USPHS) after  six months and one year and two years and three years.
In both cases the adopted evaluation criteria will be the Atraumatic Restorative Treatment (ART) and the US Public Health Assessment System (USPHS) after  six months and one year and two years and three years.
Muscle exercises for weak elderly.
Resistance training in elderly women with sarcopenia

After the initial assessment where testing for body composition will be performed (BIA), SPPB, grip, Bartel index, TUG test, the elderly will be separated by drawing lots with envelopes, with each envelope has the numbers one or two so that they are allocated randomly in functional training using the HOPE protocol (see attachments), and control.
The experimental group using the HOPE protocol will be followed twice a week for 12 weeks, with an average duration of 60 minutes; three series and progression of the load will be carried out will be based on the TUG test as stated in the protocol proposed by Clegg et al (2011).
Old people, aged oven than 70 years old;  living in the community; retired, who do not perform regular physical activity (use of the IPAQ short version; with availability to participate in all stages of research.
presence of disabling orthopedic disease; current orthopedic disease in the past six months; decompensated blood pressure; sequel of neurological diseases, diabetic; obese (through corporal- mass index BMI); cognitive impairment moderate to severe evaluated by the mini- mental State Examination (MMSE); with moderate to severe depression evidence verified by the Geriatric depression Abbreviated Scale (GDS); in use of nutritional supplements to gain muscle mass or hormone replacement. Also the elderly who miss two consecutive days will be deleted.
Expected outcome : to evaluate the muscle mass increase after functional training in sarcopenic elderly ; Evaluation method : bioimpedance quadrupole brand inbody 720 for body composition analysis with emphasis on the following parameters : muscle mass , fat-free mass ; Presentation of the method: the test will be performed before starting the intervention and at the end of the process (after 12 weeks). 
Expected outcome : to evaluate the effect on muscle performance after functional training sarcopenic elderly especially for activities of daily living ( basic , instrumental and even advanced) ; Evaluation method : will be held the Barthel index for the assessment of activities of daily living (see attachments) , in addition to up and go team ( TUG ) where the elderly should get up from a chair walk three meters and return to the point incicial to assess mobility and balance, as well as risk of falls ; Presentation of the method: the test will be performed before starting the intervention process and the end (after 12 weeks).
Associaton of products for tooth sensitivity treatment
Analysis of products association for dentin hypersensitivity treatment
1 intervention: 20 patients will be submitted to application of a glass ionomer resin in the sensitive region, the application will be held once a day repeating on a 48-hour interval for a total of 4 sessions, the protocol of each session will be: prophylaxis rinsing and removing excess water, applying the Clinpro forming a uniform layer of 0.5mm, lightcure for 20 seconds, the application can be associated with another product according to the group

2 intervention: 20 patients will be submitted to application of a potassium nitrate and 2% sodium fluoride in the sensitive region, the application will be held once a day repeating on a 48-hour interval for a total of 4 sessions, the protocol of each session will be : prophylaxis, apply evenly on the teeth, wait 10 minutes, remove the gel from the teeth with cotton and plenty of water,  the application can be associated with another product of the study according to the group
Healthy volunteers; both genres; presence of dentin exposure lesions with clinical diagnosis of moderate or severe tooth sensitivity; good oral hygiene
Presence of cavities, cracks or enamel fractures; extensive  or unsatisfactory restorations; recent restorations involving the labial surface; dentures or orthodontics; presence of periodontal disease and/or parafunctional habits; systemic disease and / or severe psychological; constant use of analgesic and / or anti-inflammatory or allergic response to dental products 
Reduction in dentin hypersensitivity in patients 180 days assessed by visual analogy scale of pain from the observation of a range of at least 30% in the pre and post intervention measurements
Reduction in dentin hypersensitivity in patients 7, 15, 30 e 60 days assessed by visual analogy scale of pain from the observation of a range of at least 30% in the pre and post intervention measurements
Treatment of VI nerve lesion by superior rectus muscle shifting to lateral rectus muscle
Treatment of VI nerve palsy by superior rectus muscle transposition to lateral rectus muscle
A group of four pacients with VI nerve palsy that were operated on transposition of superiror rectus muscle to the insertion of lateral rectus muscle. The former was attached adjacent to lateral rectus insertion
Surgery was done under general anesthesia and lasting 30 minutes
Subjects ranging from 01 to 100 years old diagnosed with VI nerve palsy
If patient denies to engage the research
If he/she presents other ophthalmic pathologies but the one evaluated
Both patients do had theirs deviations treated on primary gaze position by prism and filter method Both achieved ortotropia, that means, no deviation
They are not expected
Clinical study comparing palonosetron with ondansetron for prevention of nausea and vomiting after uterus surgery under spinal anesthesia with morphine
Randomized clinical trial comparing palonosetron with ondansetron for prophylaxis of nausea and vomiting after abdominal hysterectomy under spinal anesthesia with morphine
Patients will be randomly divided into 2 groups (65 patients in each group) according to the antiemetic prophylaxis used intraoperatively. Group 1 will receive intravenously 8mg of dexamethasone and 4mg of ondansetron, while patients in Group 2 will receive intravenous dexamethasone 8 mg and 0.075 mg of palonosetron. The antiemetic medications will be prepared by trained nurses who will not be involved in the analysis of the variables studied.
One hundred and thirty patients classified as American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status 1 or 2; aged between 18 and 65 years.
Patients who received corticosteroids and antiemetic drugs in the 24 hours before the procedure; ASA physical status III or IV; allergy to medications involved in protocol; situations that contraindicate to perform spinal anesthesia.
Incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting in both groups. Patients will be inquired about the presence or absence of these symptoms at the intervals of 0-2h, 2-24h and 24-48h. The intensity of nausea is evaluated by visual analog scale (0: no 10: maximum), amd vomiting will be determined as present or absent, as the frequency of happening.
Incidence of itching and pain. Patients will be inquired about the presence or absence of these symptoms at the intervals of 0-2h, 2-24h and 24-48h. The intensity of pain and itching will be assessed by visual analog scale (0: no 10: maximum).
Functional training for elderly with Alzheimer
Effects of functional training on cognition and functional capacity in elderly with Alzheimer
Functional training group: participated in the training group 22 elderly with Alzheimer
Elderly patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer
Elderly people with Alzheimer
Improvement in cognition in older adults with Alzheimer's disease, after twelve weeks of functional training and social conviviality, by decreasing latency and increased amplitude of P300
Improved functional capacity of older people with Alzheimer's disease, after twelve weeks of functional training, by improving the scores of Senior Fitness Test tests
Evaluation of inflammation in patients undergoing to surgery under anesthesia with desflurane or desflurane associated with nitrous oxide 
Comparison of inflammatory markers in surgical patients under anesthesia with desflurane or desflurane associated with nitrous oxide
The study will be conducted in 20 patients undergoing minimally invasive surgery with anesthetic desflurane and 20 with desflurane anesthetic associated with nitrous oxide.
Patients will be randomized into one of two groups.
Healthy individual;both sexes; aged between 18 and 50 years; who do not present other disease unless the operative condition; undergoing elective and ophthalmic surgery; lasting at least 90 minutes
Smoking; using illicit drugs and alcohol; users of daily vitamin supplements and / or antipyretics; analgesics; antibiotics; anti-inflammatory; among others; the occupationally exposed to paints; fuel; pesticides and hospital environments; those who received radiation ionizing or MRI done in less than 30 days; those who have already undergone chemotherapy or radiotherapy; patients with diseases such as asthma, hypertension; diabetes; cancer; infectious or inflammatory processes; and those who are not referred for surgery of ENT and ophthalmology clinic.
It is expected to find increased proinflammatory cytokines in both groups, especially the M1 and the hormonal changes and the protein. It is also expected that in both groups, there is an increase in gene expression.
not expected to find secondary outcomes
Comparison of Calcium Use in Patients with Lack of Parathyroid Hormone, Taken in Three Different Ways: Fasting, with Water or Orange Juice, and After Breakfast
Comparison of the Absorption of Calcium Carbonate in Patients with Definitive Hypoparathyroidism Ingested Three Different Ways: Fasting, with Water or Orange Juice, and After Breakfast
Twelve female patients, suffering from post-thyroidectomy hypoparathyroidism for differentiated thyroid carcinoma, will be evaluated after the intake of calcium  carbonate (CaCO3; 500 mg of elemental calcium)in three different situations, regarding the evolution of calcemia , with 1-week interval between them. In situation 
Female, regularly followed at the outpatient thyroid neoplasms; carriers after definitive surgical hypoparathyroidism, with persistent symptoms after at least 1 year after completion of total thyroidectomy due to CDT; between 18 and 50 years of age, who had no serious illnesses and who agreed and signed the Informed Consent.
Menopause; neuromotor disorder; sequela of stroke; malabsorptive syndrome; digestive complications of the gastrointestinal tract; decompensated diabetes; severe hypertension; chronic renal failure; liver disease; malnutrition; cancer; manifest hyperthyroidism; severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; patients with therapy antirreabsortiva bone, or use of corticosteroids, thiazides, omeprazole and prokinetics; hat are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Outcome found: in the hypoparathyroidism, calcium carbonate (CaCO3) intake  after consumption of food compared to fasting with water or orange juice led to maintain serum calcium (Ca) similar. Method for assessing the expected outcome: performing serum Ca at baseline and every 30 minutes for 5 hours, after ingestion of 500 mg CaCO3 in 3 different ways (with water, orange juice or breakfast). Parameters used: Statistical comparison of the three curves, the maximum peak and the area under the curve (AUC) of Ca.The intake way that to produce statistically, the curve with the highest concentrations, the highest peak and the largest AUC of Ca would be the most appropriate way of ingestion. There was not a pre-set number or percentage.The 3 parameters were not statistically different.
Outcome found: in the hypoparathyroidism, calcium carbonate (CaCO3) intake  after consumption of food compared to fasting with water or orange juice led to maintain serum product Ca.P similar. Method for assessing the expected outcome: performing serum Ca and P at baseline and every 30 minutes for 5 hours, after ingestion of 500 mg CaCO3 in 3 different ways (with water, orange juice or breakfast), by multiplying both. Parameters used: Statistical comparison of the three curves, the maximum peak and the area under the curve (AUC) of product Ca.P.The intake way that to produce statistically, the curve with the lowest concentrations, the lowest peak and the smaller AUC of procust Ca.P would be the most appropriate way of ingestion. There was not a pre-set number or percentage.The 3 parameters were not statistically different.
Effects of Resistance Training on Cardiovascular Risk Factors in Middle Aged Women
Effects of Different Models of Undulating Periodization of Resistance Training on Cardiovascular Risk Parameters, Body Composition, Muscle Strength and Lifespam in Premenopausal Women with Metabolic Syndrome
Clinical randomized controlled trial, double-blind, 3 arms. Women between 18 and 49 years will be voluntarily recruited from the local community. Each volunteer you be submitted to general physical exams, including: medical history, rest and exercise electrocardiogram, blood pressure measure before the beginning of the resistance training program. After completing the clinical exams for inclusion, will be selected 60  pre-menopausal sedentary women. They will be randomly divided into three groups of 20. Group 1 - will perform weekly undulating periodization of resistance training, group will perform daily undulating periodization, and control group. Initially, will be analyzed: 1)Maximal strength evaluations - after two weeks of adaptation to resistance exercises and clinical evaluation maximal strength (1RM) tests will be performed; 2) Resistance training - will be performed with weekly and daily undulating periodization models. En the daily undulating model, training intensity will be increased in each day of the week, for example, day 1 8-10RM (repetitions maximum) day 2 3-6RM and day 3 12-15RM load, while for the weekly undulating the intensity adjustment will occur weekly, week 1 of 8-10RM, week 2 of 3-6RM and week 3 of 12-15RM; 3) Anthropometry; 4)Body composition - body composition analysis of the volunteers, before and after the training period will be done by the Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry; 5)Blood pressure - the measure of systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), in weeks 0, 12 and 24 will be done by the auscultatory method; 6) Cytokines measure - plasma cytokines and resistin, and salivary immunoglobulin A - saliva drawn will be performed to remove cells from the oral mucosa. Then, swabs tips will be separated with scissors and transferred to 1,5 ml to measure immunoglobulin A in saliva. Blood samples (3ml) will be collected from the antecubital vein with vaccumtainer tubes before, immediately after, 24h and 48h after the first resistance training session and in the same time-points after three and six months; 7) Samples and plasma analysis to determine the Agiotensin Converting Enzyme polymorphism  in the selection of the sample will be collected(5) ml from venous blood from  vacutainer sterile tubes with anticoagulant. Measures of triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol, insulin, glucose and glycated hemoglobin will be performed in a laboratory of clinical analysis by standardized procedures, in weeks 0, 12 and 24; 8) Complete hemogram - blood samples collected before and after resistance training; 9)Quality of life of the participants to obtain the reference values of the quality of life indicators, will be performed by interview, translated and validated to Portuguese language; 10) Subjective Perception Exertion - with the objective to verify the intensity of the effort after each training day for both groups the perceived exertion scale will be used
To be pre-menopausal aged between 18-49 years and no regular practice of exercise in the previous 12 months
Use of drugs that could affect cardiovascular response to exercise and presence of any disease that would compromise their health during the study period.
Improvement of the metabolic profile measured by blood cytokines, lipidogram, insulin and glucose
Decrease of the cardiovascular risk factors, also measured by blood pressure parameters after six months
Influence of Bacterial Growing Properties in Treatment of Acute Exacerbation Chronic  Sinusitis
Influence of Bacterial Biofilms in Clinical Treatment of Patients with Acute Exacerbation Chronic  Rhinossinusitis
Experimental group: 11 subjects treated with nasal washing with 0,9% saline and amoxicillin/clavulanate tablets each 8 hour for 14 days.
Control group: 11 subjects treated with nasal washing with 0,9% saline and placebo tablets each 8 hour for 14 days.
Subjects of both genders, adults (older than 18 years) routine followed by outpatient management with clinical signs and symptoms compatible with acute exacerbation of chronic rhinosinusitis. Voluntarily agree to participate in the study and signed an informed consent and informed.
Patients who have used oral or topical antibiotics in the last 30 days; systemic corticosteroids in the past 30 days, who are using systemic antihistamine, systemic or topical decongestants. Patients younger than 18 years, pregnant women, patients with allergy to any component of amoxicillin-clavulanate or carrying any serious disease.
Found: Different methods of evaluation were concordant  that patients treated with amoxicillin-clavulanate had clinical improvement, although there was no bacteriological cure at the end of treatment in most cases. Higher frequency of exacerbation and bad clinical outcome were associated with biofilm-forming bacteria.
Found: Inhibitory concentration for biofilm-forming bacteria showed high rates of resistance to amoxicillin and clarithromycin for gram-negative bacteria, although amoxicillin-clavulanate and levofloxacin were effective inhibiting the growth of all bacteria.
Physiotherapy for childbirth preparation
Role of physical therapy during pregnancy fopr childbirth preparation
Physical therapy treatment performed with one patient without diabetes and high blood pressure for childbirth preparationn, between 18 and 36 weeks of gestation, aiming vaginal delivery where strengthening exercises were performed pelvic floor, breathing exercises, relaxation and postural orientations. 
Treatment performed within 4 months, twice a week for 1 hour. The patient performed exercises in the supine position and also in the sitting position (on the Swiss ball or on the mat). When lying, performed stretching of the lower limbs with elastic band and strengthening exercises of the adductor muscles of the thigh with the aid of a ball, and abdominal exercices with the help of the Swiss ball and hip lift. When sitting, stretching the cervical spine and upper limbs. Breathing exercises and strengthening the pelvic floor (using Kegel exercises) were performed in the supine and sitting positions as it was more comfortable for patient. At the end of the session, there was a relaxation exercise along with diaphragmatic breathing in the most comfortable position for the patient.
Women; between 20 and 35 years; primigravidae; belonging to UBS the municipality of Assisi; normoglycemic and normotensive; gestational period of 18 to 36 weeks.
Women; under 18 or over 36 years; multiparous; hypertensive or diabetic; with risk pregnancy indication; women who left to attend the service.
Only one participant was in the inclusion criteria of the study, pre-natal evaluation and application of the Protocol was held until 36 weeks of gestation. After delivery, the participant was asked about the type of delivery, labor time, baby weight, pre-pregnancy weight and weight gain during pregnancy, pain assessment on the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and function of the revaluation of pelvic floor muscles and postpartum flexibility. Decrease was observed in the function of the pelvic floor muscles (grade 4 to grade 2) and increased flexibility.
During the second stage of the participant's labor there were complications caused by cervical cord wrapped in one of the baby's legs and therefore vaginal delivery was not possible, taking the participant to perform abdominal delivery.
Study of lung function, and sleep, and daytime sleepiness, and the behavior of the autonomic nervous system, and anxiety, depression, and stress in  chronic renal failure patients.
Study of lung function, and maximal ventilatory pressures, and sleep, and daytime sleepiness, and nocturnal periodic legs moviments, and autonomic nervous system activity, and ansiety, and depression, and stress vulnerability, in chronic kidney disease patients.
Will be invited 57 patients to participate in this study patients with chronic renal failure from a specialized nephrology clinical setting. Patients will be consecutively clinically evaluated during 2012/2013 and submitted a sleep study, and antonomic nervous system activity by heart rate variability, and anxiety, and depression, and quality of life questionnaire. The clinical evaluation, polysomnography studies and heart rate variability analysis will be performed in each patient once before and after hemodialysis session. The questionnaires of quality of life and, anxiety, depression and, stress will be applied once in all patients in the study.  
Patients with chronic renal failure candidates to  renal transplant with an indication of hemodialysis, that agree to participate in the study; 
Both gender;
Abuse of alcohol and or drugs; 
Presence of anxiety and depression checked by cutoff points greater than or equal to nine by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale.
Increased stress with questionnaire Lipp Stress Symptoms Inventory for Adults.
Comparison of physiological responses between different functional tests in obese
Reproducibility of maximum and submaximal exercise tests in obese subjects using a gas analyzer by telemetry system
At first, the patients performed at the Department of Physical Therapy at UFRN, clinical and anthropometric evaluation preoperative for screening. They answered an evaluation form, developed and already in use by the physiotherapy team responsible for the preoperative assessment of Bariatric Surgery preparation HUOL group, which consisted of the following: identification (gender, age, date of birth, education , marital status, profession), pathological and family history (hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, Dyslipidemia, COPD, cancer, stroke, arthritis, arthrosis), lifestyle (sedentary, drinking, smoking) and sleep (sleepiness, snoring) , pain symptoms, medication use, previous surgeries or information menstrual cycle (for women). In addition, anthropometric measures of general adiposity were observed (weight, height, BMI calculation) and peripheral (CC, CQ, CP) to quantify the central and peripheral adiposity. After clinical and anthropometric assessment was carried respiratory evaluation by spirometry (DATOSPIR 120 -Siblemed, Barcelona, ??Spain) (Figure 2) for measuring parameters such as forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and maximum voluntary ventilation (MVV). The test was performed according to the acceptance standard reproducible and driven by the ATS. In different day initial evaluation was carried out the test considered standard cardiopulmonary test gold (spirometry) at the University Hospital - HUOL (Sector Ergometry). The patients underwent cardiopulmonary exercise test or cardiopulmonary exercise test (Figure 3), a gas analyzer for telemetry system (model Metasoft Cortex Biophysik, Germany). Variable interest were collected to monitor the maximum functional capacity of obese (metabolic variables: VO 2 and VCO 2 produced in the activity and VO2 peak effort or dependent), respiratory (VE-minute ventilation, respiratory equivalents of VE / VO2 oxygen-and dioxide carbon -VE / VCO 2; gasosa- exchange rate of RER). The test followed the safety regulation, monitoring, implementation and interpretation of the data recommended by the ATS to perform cardiopulmonary stress test. The protocol used was: test on a treadmill (Micromed - Centurion 300), performing the Step protocol (increments of speed and slope every 3 minutes) up to the limit tolerable by the patient. Days other than CPET, were performed in the Department of Physical Therapy at UFRN, tests of submaximal cardiopulmonary exercise. In both tests, measurements were taken of expired breathing gas and breathing throughout the test as already described in the previous test. First it performed the 6-minute walk test -TC6M, which assesses the functional capacity of obese individuals, by measuring the distance traveled by individuals for 6 minutes and respiratory and metabolic variables. In this test, the subjects walked on a 30m corridor delimited by cones, with walking speed self imposed by the individual. They were taken before, during and after the measures of HR and SpO2 (peripheral oxygen saturation). PA measures, subjective stress and frequency respiratória- FR were taken before and after the tests. After a rest interval of 30 minutes from the 6MWT, obese performed the Incremental Shuttle Walking Test. In this, the subject was instructed to gradually walk faster around two cones placed at a distance of 10 meters of each other, at a pace set by pre-recorded beeps. To carry out the sample calculation was used-primary outcome variable 
Individuals of both sexes, different degrees of obesity; I, II and III, aged between 18 and 60 years, sedentary or active, no deficit in the locomotor system and or changes in the reported balance or detected on physical examination and spirometric function preserved; FVC
Exclusion was determined when the testing protocol is not finalized within the given deadline, difficulty in understanding and carrying out the tests or when and musculoskeletal limitations or pain prevented the tests
At the end of the study showed no significant difference in the outcome variable, oxygen consumption at peak activity (VO2) for both genders during cardiopulmonary test maximum effort and submaximal exercise test, the incremental shuttle test. VO2 values presented were similar between both tests from the realization of a range of at least 5% in measurements between tests
At the end of the study it was observed that there was moderate and negative correlation between anthropometric measurements of BMI and waist circumference measured through the maximal cardiopulmonary exercise testing from the realization of a range of at least 5% in measurements between tests
Diabetes Management from Information Transmitted by Phone Calls
Control of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Analysis of an Intervention Program with Information about the Disease Via Phone Calls
There will be no masking and the allocation of subjects in both arms (control and experimental groups) it will be made by the method of randomization in blocks, characterized by the formation of blocks of fixed number of individuals of equal size, which will be distributed within the treatments in question, block by block, until it finishes the process of allocation of research participants. Therefore, it will be composed by two arms, each consisting of 54 participants. 
The intervention will be conducting educational sessions with information about managing the disease and encourage adherence to treatment provided by a nurse through telephone contacts fortnightly.
Having type 2 diabetes for at least one year;Having more than 18 years old;Owning telephone contact;Being able to come to the unit for blood collection;Being able to self-monitoring of blood glucose and self-administration of medicines;Being able to understand the goals, methods and treatment procedures.
Owning hemoglonina glycated less than 7%;Have complications from the disease: kidney failure, blindness and amputation of limbs;Submit severe cardiovascular disease, high blood pressure or mental illness;Be participating in research with similar goals, made by other researchers.
Check the improvement of knowledge about aspects of type 2 diabetes will be assessed by testing knowledge (DKN - A) before and after the intervention in both groups (control and experimental). The analysis will be based on the knowledge score for participants to respond to questions. Check adherence to treatment for type 2 diabetes will be assessed through the "Self-Care Activities Questionnaire with Diabetes" (SCAQD).
Check the decrease in glycated hemoglobin levels, fasting glucose, body mass index, LDL, HDL, triglycerides and blood pressure in patients with type 2 diabetes. The decrease in values will be analyzed by laboratory exams and measurements of weight, height and blood pressure performed before and after the intervention in both groups (control and experimental).
A Long-term, Safety and Efficacy Study of Intranasal Esketamine in Treatment resistant Depression
An Open-label, Long-term, Safety and Efficacy Study of Intranasal Esketamine in Treatment-resistant Depression
The study will include about 750 participants worldwide, with 90 coming from 19 Brazilian site centers (about 5 participants per center). Esketamine group: Open-Label Induction Phase: Participants will self-administer esketamine intranasally twice per week for 4 weeks as a flexible dose regimen (56 mg or 84 mg for those 
Research participants with direct Entry: The study population will include men and women with 18 years of age who meet the Manual of diagnostic criteria Diagnostic and Statistical of Mental Disorders (5th edition, DSM-5) for recurrent MDD or MDD single episode ( a single episode, the episode duration should be 2 years) without psychotic features, based on clinical evaluation and confirmed by Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI). In screening, the research participant must have a MADRS total score 22, which corresponds to at least moderate depression .Research participants with direct entry will be eligible for screening regardless of whether they are taking or not currently oral antidepressant medications. In screening, the research participants with direct entry must habe no response to two different oral antidepressant treatments administered in proper dosage and proper duration (including oral antidepressant currently taken, if applicable), as measured in MGH-ATRQ and documented by history medical and / or pharmacy records / prescription for the current episode .Research participants  with transfer entry. All survey participants with transfer entry (elderly research participants with 65 years of age) who completed the double-phase induction blind ESKETINTRD3005 study will be eligible for this study: nonresponders research participants will join the study at the beginning of the open induction phase; responders research participants will join the study from the beginning of the optimization/maintenance phase.
Potential research participants will be excluded from participation in the study if they have previously shown no response of depressive symptoms to escetamina or ketamine in the current major depressive episode or all of the oral antidepressant treatment available in their country in the open induction phase (ie, duloxetine, escitalopram, sertraline and venlafaxine XR) in the current major depressive episode (based on MGH-ATRQ). Research participants will also be excluded if they have a DSM-5 diagnostic current or previous a psychotic or MDD disorder with psychosis, bipolar and related disorders (confirmed by MINI), obsessive compulsive disorder comorbid, intellectual disability (DSM-5 diagnostic codes 317 , 318.0, 318.1, 318.2, 315.8 and 319), autistic spectrum disorder, borderline personality disorder, antisocial personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder or narcissistic personality disorder; if they presented ideation / homicidal or suicidal ideation intent with any intention to act within 6 months before the screening phase according to the clinical judgment of the investigator and / or based on Suicide Severity Rating Scale Columbia ( CSSRS); or have a history of disorder or substance use moderate or severe alcohol according to the DSM-5. Furthermore, study participants with 65 ages will be excluded if they have neurodegenerative disorders (eg., Alzheimer
Change from baseline in Bladder Pain/ Interstitial Cystitis Symptom Score (BPIC-SS) score greater than (>)18 over time;Day 1 up to end of follow up phase; Bladder Pain/ Interstitial Cystitis Symptom Score (BPIC-SS), is a scale to monitor for  symptoms of cystitis, bladder pain, and interstitial cystitis. 
Change in the Baseline of Generalized Anxiety Disorder score reported participant (GAD-7); The GAD-7 is a brief and validated measure of general anxiety; Baseline change in operation and participant-reported disability assessed by the total score on the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS). SDS is a measure effects reported by the participants and it is a questionnaire of 5 items that have been widely used and accepted for functional impairment assessment and associated disability; Baseline change in score of the Clinical Global Impression - Severity (CGI-S); The CGI-S evaluates the severity of psychopathology on a scale of 0 to 7. Considering the overall clinical experience, the participant is evaluated the severity of the mental illness. The CGI-S allows an overall assessment of the participant's condition at any given time; Baseline change in participant-reported depressive symptoms by the total score in the patient health questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9). The PHQ-9 is a 9-item scale used to evaluate depressive symptoms.
CQAB149BAR01 - 24-week study to assess which treatment is safer and bring more benefits to patients with COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease)
combination budesonide / indacaterol vs fluticasone /
CQAB149BAR01 - 24-week study to evaluate efficacy and safety of the
combination budesonide / indacaterol vs fluticasone /
Approximately 242 participants will be included in this study in approximately 35 research centers in South America In Brazil 35 patients will be enrolled.

Investigational Group: 121 patients with Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease will receive  a free combination of budesonide 400 mcg (Miflonide®), twice / day 150 mcg indacaterol (Onbrize®) once a day for Breezhaler device ® 
Patients both genders, age greater than 40 years in outpatient treatment with a diagnosis of COPD in groups C and D, according to the GOLD with post-bronchodilator FEV1 
Patients requiring oxygen therapy for chronic hypoxemia (excluding acute exacerbation of COPD), typically with oxygen
The primary endpoint of the study is change from baseline in trough FEV1 after 12 weeks (84 days) of treatment in patients with moderate to severe COPD.  FEV1 is defined as the average FEV1 23.10 min and 23.45 min after the morning dose of study drug.
Both superiority assessment of the free combination indacaterol/budesonide over salmeterol/fluticasone on trough FEV1 after 12 weeks of treatment and the non-inferiority comparison after 24 weeks of treatment will be analyzed. 
Comparison between two techniques of pulmonary re-expansion in patients undergoing laparoscopic bariatric surgery.
Comparison between application of recruitment maneuver and manual chest compression and decompression in patients undergoing laparoscopic bariatric surgery. 


The patients will be randomly distributed into three groups, the Control Group (CG), where the patient will hold conventional physiotherapy (FC) consists of breathing exercises , RESPIRON and hiking; Experimental Group One (GEI), where the patient will hold conventional physiotherapy associated with alveolar recruitment maneuver; and Experimental Group Two (GEII), where the patient will hold conventional physiotherapy associated with the Manual Chest Compression and Descompression Maneuver.
All patients will be evaluated in four specific moments: preoperative (Pre-op), immediate postoperative period (Poi), first postoperative (PO 1) and second postoperative (2nd PO). 
Patients undergoing gastroplasty by laparoscopic; normal pulmonary function or mild disorders; no osteoarticular lesions (rib fractures or unstable thorax); those who agree to sign the Informed Consent Form.
Hemodynamic instability (Mean arterial pressure 
Improvement in pulmonary ventilation and gas exchange with the application of conventional physiotherapy, alveolar recruitment and manual chest compression and chest decompression, thus reducing the incidence of pulmonary complications such as atelectasis. To evaluate the improvement of ventilation will be evaluated the following variables  before and after intervention: forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) , forced vital capacity (FVC), peak expiratory flow (PEF), maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV) and forced expiratory flow 25- 75 % (FEF 25-75 %).  The improved ventilation will be verified by spirometry and pulse oximetry based statistically significant difference (p<0.05) among the results before and after intervention.
Data not yet completed
Strength evaluation after  open surgery for bladder in patients undergoing conventional fasting and fasting with limited time 
Functional assessment after open cholecystectomy in patients undergoing conventional and abbreviated fasting
Intervention group: 14 woman between 18 and 60 years old, without other deseases and with good nutricional assessment who undergoing open cholecystectomy received a drunk with carbohidrate (clear tea with 12.5% of maltodextrine) before the surgery, being offerd 400 ml of this beverage six hours before the surgery and 200 ml of the same beverage two hours before the surgical procedure.
Control group : 13 woman between 18 and 60 years old, without other deseases and with good nutricional assessment who undergoing open cholecystectomy - no treatment
adult female patients, aged 18 to 60 years old undergoing open cholecystectomy
Younger than 18 years and greater than 60 years, male, other diseases.
Found outcome: significant increase in muscle strength in the intervention group compared to the control group (p=0,01) after drink containing carbohydrate intake by the intervention group.
Found outcome: increase in muscle strength measured in the intervention group individuals compaired to the control group in the times of six hours before the operation (p=0,04), one hour before the procedure and in the postoperative of these individuals (p=0,01).
Effects of early aerobic exercise after cardiac surgery
Effects of early aerobic exercise after coronary artery bypassa grafting: a randomized controlled clinical trial during hospitalization
Control group: 30 (thirty) patients will receive conventional physiotherapy consists of the following interventions:
- Guidelines: posture, deep breath, chest protection, encouraging the return of daily activities, encouraging cough;
Patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery in the proposed period.
Use of intra-aortic balloon or other invasive device inserted by femoral artery;Surgical reintervention immediate postoperative period; Perioperative death; Prolonged Hospitalization above 10 days
Mean distance covered in a 6-minute walk test before and after cardiac surgery (over 300 meters)
Reduction of hospital stay, in days
Religiousness and the Quality of Life of Adventists: Clinical Trial
Parish Nursing and Quality of Life of Adventists: Clinical Trial
Religious intervention: the group will be divided in experimental (Group 1- 90 members) and control group (Group 2 - 90 members). The intervention will be through home visitation to the experimental group encouraging them to attend the church (at least once/week), praying 3 times per day and reading the Bible (at least 1 chapter per day). This intervention will take place for four months. The Group 2 will not receive any intervention. The questionaries of Religion Index Scale (Duke-Durel) and Short-Form SF36 Health Survey will be used on this research.
Being a member of the Seventh Day Adventist Church, have 35 years or more. Membership in the church means to one who is christened and it regular member of the church records, which may or might not be frequenting weekly.
To refuse to participate in this study.
Those who have received at the beginning scores less than 50 on the SF 36 will have the intervention (experimental group) and this test will take place on the end of the study in order to have a comparisson with control group too. 
From this result, the study group will check if the quality of life of the church members would increase from the influence of increased religiosity.
Pain and child anxiety perceived during atraumatic and conventional restorative treatments by 5-to 8-yr-old school children
Perception of pain and anxiety related to atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) and conventional treatment by 5-to 8-yr-old school children 
Intervention group: 79 children received the atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) during dental appointment of 30 minutes, in a day of week previously scheduled. Control group: 79 children received conventional treatment (amalgam restoration) during a dental appointment of 30 minutes, in a day of week previously scheduled. The test and control restorative procedures were randomly performed   with a interval of 7 days between visits. Both groups responded to an anxiety scale (FIS Scale) in the dentist
6- to 8-yr-old children with good systemic conditions, have at least two bilateral decayed primary molars with Black
children under 5 years or over 8 years, have less than two bilateral decayed primary molars in the mouth, teeth with pain, apical lesions, and pulp involvement, use of anesthesia during the procedure on the day of the dentist appointment day, individual informed consent form not signed by the parents or the child
Found outcomes: The previous anxiety was not different between the two groups (intervention and control) when the intervention group was treated in the first session, but the pain levels were higher in the control group. Scores FIS scale and heart rate before the procedures did not differ between the two groups. The scores of the Wong-Baker scale and heart rate while performing the procedures were higher in the control group. A variation of 5% in the responses FIS escale and heart rate was admitted. 
Outcome found: Lower previous anxiety levels in the control group in the second treatment session. To evaluate the variable previous anxiety was used FIS scale and heart rate. For determining the expected outcome compared the responses of the two groups. A variation of 5% in scale and heart rate was considered. 
Assessment of the influence of the use of live microorganisms on the absorption and production of soy isoflavone substances in women with menopausal symptoms
Assessment of the influence of probiotics in absorption and production of soy metabolites in menopausal women with climateric symptoms
Each of the three treatment groups consists of 20 participants to be followed over 16 weeks. The participants have been randomized according to the following therapies:

- Soy isoflavone group (n=20): ingestion of one capsule containing 60mg of isoflavone (SoyFemme®, Aché Pharmaceuticals);
Women between 40 and 60 years of age; latest menstrual period has occurred at least 12 months previously; follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels are higher than 40mIU/mL; estradiol levels are lower than 20 pg/ml;currently present symptoms of estrogen deprivation.
History of chronic conditions such as Type 2 diabetes mellitus; cardiovascular or gastro-intestinal disorders; contraindications to hormone replacement therapy; soy-intolerant; vegetarians; undergone bariatric surgery; undergone hysterectomy; undergone hormone replacement therapy; oral contraceptives; antibiotics or lipid-lowering drugs in the previous 6 months.


The effects of the use of phytoestrogens associated to probiotics on the relief of climacteric symptoms at the end of the treatment may be superior to those of the use of phytoestrogens in isolation and similar to the effects seen in users of HT. To that end, the intensity of climacteric symptoms will be evaluated in a period of four months through the use of MRS (Menopause Rating Scale) questionnaires. The MRS is composed of 11 items assessing menopausal symptoms and is divided into three subscales: somatic symptoms, psychological symptoms, and urogenital symptoms. Each item is graded by the participant, with scores ranging from 0 (absent) to 4 (1, mild; 2, moderate; 3, severe; 4, very severe). The urinary symptoms will be evaluated through the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire – Short Form (ICIQ-SF). Vaginal tropism will be evaluated through the Vaginal Health Score Index, vaginal cytology, vaginal pH, and vaginal microbiota. The Vaginal Health Score Index is composed of 5 items (elasticity, fluid volume, pH, epithelial integrity, and moisture) graded from 1 to 5 and evaluated during gynecological examination. A score lower than 15 will indicate vaginal atrophy. The maturation index of vaginal cytology will be evaluated and vaginal pH will be measured using pH paper in contact with the vaginal epithelium. Vaginal microbiota will be evaluated through Gram staining and classified into: type 1 (85% or more of Lactobacillus), type 2 (the same proportion of Lactobacillus and coccoid microbiota), and type 3 (nearly complete absence of Lactobacillus with the presence of coccoid microbiota).
The equol-producing women will have a wider diversity of strains in their intestinal microbiota than non-equol producing women. The analysis of the intestinal microbiota will be performed through stool analysis in order to identify the predominant phyla present in the microbiota of equol-producing individuals.   
Exercise and ventilatory support in patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease after inspiratory muscle training
Endurance associated with noninvasive ventilation in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease after inspiratory muscle training
They will be selected for the study 15 patients with COPD, which will carry out all stages of the research.
On the first visit patients will undergo assessment of health status and lung function by spirometry, carbon monoxide by diffusion test and evaluation of maximal respiratory pressure (MIP and MEP).
Patients of both sexes; aged between 40 and 80 years diagnosed with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Class III and IV (severe to very severe) according to the Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung Disease criteria (GOLD). Exacerbation free in the 4 weeks prior to testing; absence of cardiovascular disease; arthritis; asthma; pulmonary hypertension; diabetes or musculoskeletal disorders that prevent the achievement of exercise tests.
Patients younger than 40 and older than 80 years who present cardiovascular changes during the exercise test. Those who do not attend at least 80% of the stages of inspiratory muscle training
Increase in respiratory muscle strength Verified by measurement of maximal respiratory pressures ( MIP and MEP ) through the manometer with increase of more than 2.4 points - value Examiner repeatability coefficient  Increase in the time of exercise tolerance. The increase in exercise tolerance time will be measured by the constant load test in cycle ergometer with an average increase of 100 seconds in time of tolerance in constant load exercise
Desaturation decreased during the year Will be assessed using pulse oximetry during exercise through an oxygen saturation test to the end of at least 4 % higher.
Effect of the chiropractic and multidisciplinary treatment in the quality of life, functionality and pain in patients with spinal cord injury
Effect of the chiropractic and multidisciplinary approach in the quality of life, functionality and pain in patients with spinal cord injury
Patients will be randomly divided into 3 groups, denominated as: Groups 1 (G1), 2 (G2) and 3 (G3). G1: 10 patients will receive multidisciplinary intervention which includes chiropractic and physiotherapy treatment as well as supervision of a physical education professional. G2: 10 patients will only be given chiropractic intervention. G3: 10 patients will receive none of the above. The chiropractic procedures include joint manipulations (when possible), denominated adjustments and muscular therapies. The physiotherapeutic procedures consist of joint manipulations, stretch and therapeutic exercises. The steps of the physical educators include resistance exercises. Group 2, solely chiropractic intervention, will be performed by chiropractic experts with a wide academic and professional experience. Chiropractic manipulation procedures will be carried out as well as muscular and articular, respecting the contraindications to chiropractic adjustment. Group 3, control, will not receive any intervention and will be invited to receive such intervention after three months of study.
Subjects between 18 and 60 years, with vision and hearing preserved, diagnosed with spinal cord injury who accept participate in the study by completing the Statement of Consent.
Do not fulfill the indicated program and do not sign the Statement of Consent. 
Improvement in life quality, functionality and pain after three month of intervention by instruments semi-structured interview, rating scale neurological ASIA (American Spinal Injury Association), the Brazilian version of the SF-36, Functional Independence Measure (FIM), modified Ashworth scale and pain scales.
Reduction in morbidity and mortality after three months of intervention.
Reproducibility of blood pressure reduction and its physiological regulators after a sessions of  exercise executed in different days
Reproducibility of post-exercise hypotension and its hemodynamic and autonomic mechanisms
A single group  of 30 subjects will undergo 4 experimental sessions (crossover study), divided into 2 blocks (test and retest). Each block will be composed by 1 exercise session and 1 control session, performed in random order.  
After arriving at the laboratory, subjects will rest in the sitting position for 60 min (pre-intervention), then will execute the intervention period (exercise or control) lasting 60 min, and finally will return to rest for 90 min (post-intervention period).
Both genders
Age between 20 and 60 years
Presence of complex arrhythmias and/or ischemia during a cardiopulmonary exercise test
Good reproducibility of blood pressure reduction after exercise, evaluated by blood pressure measurements, before and after interventions. A good reproducibility will be defined by the following parameters: Absence of systematic error, evaluated by paired t test between test and retest, adopting a significance level of  p < 0,05; Good reliability determined by an intraclass correlation coefficient equal or greater than 0,75; Good agreement represented by a low coefficient of variation (<10%).  
Good reproducibility of cardiac output, heart rate, autonomic cardiac modulation and vascular function, evaluated respectively by CO2 rebreathing, electrocardiogram, spectral analysis of heart rate variability and venous occlusion plethysmography, before and after interventions. A good reproducibility will be defined by the following parameters: Absence of systematic error, evaluated by paired t test between test and retest, adopting a significance level of  p < 0,05; Good reliability determined by an intraclass correlation coefficient equal or greater than 0,75; Good agreement represented by a low coefficient of variation (<10%).    
Occupational exposure to waste anesthetic gases: evaluation of toxic effects in genetic material and antioxidant system in recently exposed professionals
Determination of waste Anesthetic Gases and evaluation of genomic and oxidative stress in newly exposed professionals
Study group: 60 healthy, young medical residents of both genders. Experimental group: 30 medical residents of anesthesiology and surgery areas with three years of exposure to waste anesthetic gases (isoflurane, sevoflurane and nitrous oxide), with working hours of 8 hours/day, 3 to 6 days per week at the Surgical Center of the School Hospital of Botucatu Medical School (FMB-UNESP), São Paulo, Brazil. Control group: 30 medical residents of clinical and pediatric areas, without occupational exposure to waste anesthetic gases, with the same working hours as the exposed group, at the ambulatory care and infirmaries of the School Hospital of Botucatu Medical School (FMB-UNESP). All of the recruited individuals answered a detailed questionnaire about their lifestyle, health status, and current exposure to environmental pollutants (working hours and period of exposure). Venous blood samples (15mL) and buccal cells (swab) were drawn from all professionals, at one time. 
Medical residents; young; 25 to 35 years of age; healthy; of both genders; with or without exposure to waste anesthetic gases.
Medical residents with neoclassic disease; inflammatory or infectious conditions; smokers; alcoholics; history of drug abuse; use of medication or antioxidant supplementation; recent exposure to radiation.
The experimental group exposed to waste anesthetic gases will have a significant increase of DNA damage, measured by the Comet Assay, in which is expected to find a minimal increase of 10% in damaged lymphocytes per 100 cells in the exposed group opposed to the control group. 
The experimental group exposed to waste anesthetic gases will have a significant increase of 7-10% in the concentration of Malondialdehyde (MDA) measured through High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in contrast with the control group, which indicates a higher oxidative status in the exposed group.
Fish oil consumption and its effect on inflammation in patients with leukaemia and lymphomas undergoing chemotherapy
Oral supplementation with fish oil and the effects on cytokine concentration and Proportion of T cell subsets in peripheral blood of patients with hematological neoplasms undergoing chemotherapy
The sample is non-probabilistic, by convenience and the sample size will be achieved by temporal saturation. Therefore, the data that will be submitted to analysis will be related to the sample obtained during the study. All patients initiating chemotherapy in the period of data collection, which fit the inclusion criteria and who agree to participate in the study will be submitted to randomization procedure. 
Individuals will be randomly assigned between the two groups: control: no placebo; Intervention: orally supplemented with fish oil gelatinous capsule (2g/kg/day) for nine weeks. All additional procedures will be the same for both groups of participants.
Aged 16 years old or more; present hematologic malignancy diagnosis, be able to start chemotherapy; present adequate oral intake conditions; accept to participate of anthropometric and biochemical evaluations, indicating your acceptance by signing the Free and Clarified Consent Term. Additionally, individuals under the age of 18,will be included in the study only after signed parental consent.
Aged less than 16 years old, no legal parental consent if under 18 years old, to be in palliative care; receiving statins and/or some nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; possess any infectious disease diagnosis, be allergic to fish and/or derivatives, have made use of fish oil and/or other supplements containing omega-3 six months before the beginning of the study or being pregnant.
Decrease of the Inflammatory-Nutritional risk indicated by C-reactive protein/Albumin: Calculated by the ratio of the Serum C-reactive protein (mg/L) by the serum albumin (g/dL) Both are determined in serum obtained from blood by an automated biochemistry analyzer.  Classification adopted: without risk: <0.4, low risk: 0.4 to 1.2; moderate risk: 1.2 to 2.0; high risk: >2.0 After the calculation of the ratio, the intragroup (basal and after nine weeks) and intergroup (control vs. supplemented) values (means or medians) are compared. Additionally, the number of subjects presenting changes in the risk classification are compared between time points and groups of study.
Increase in the Nutritional Risk Index (NRI): Calculated based on the equation: 1.519 x serum albumin (g/dL) + 41.7 x current weight (kg)/usual weight (kg) Serum albumin is determined by an automated colorimetric method, current weight by an electronic platform scale on the days of blood colletion and usual weight (from the last 6 months) is auto-reported  The classification adopted: No nutrition risk: >100; Borderline nutrition risk: 99.9-97.5; Mild nutrition risk: 83.5-97.5; Severe nutritional risk: <83.5 The intragroup (basal and after nine weeks) and intergroup (control vs. supplemented) values (means or medians) are compared. Additionally, the number of subjects that presenting changes in the risk classification are compared between time points and groups of study  
Prevalence of risk factors for heart diseases in children and adolescents in Botuverá -SC: a continued study
Prevalence of cardiometabolic risk factors in children and adolescents of Botuverá-SC: a continued study
Observational study. All students enrolled in public schools in the city of Botuverá-SC (n = 587) were invited to participate. Sample calculation determined that 356 children would be the minimum number of students to be evaluated. Blood sample (10 milliliters) will be collected after fasting for 12-14 hours using vacuum systems, in tubes without anticoagulant by specialized professionals. Laboratory tests will be carried out at the Research Laboratory of Lipids, Antioxidants and Atherosclerosis and at Clinical Laboratory of University Hospital of Federal University of Santa Catarina. The sets of reagents for the determination of total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein (HDL-C), low density lipoprotein (LDL-C), triglycerides, glucose and uric acid will be obtained from the company Labtest Diagnostica (Lagoa Santa - Minas Gerais) and biochemical analyzes will be performed in automated Cobas Mira Plus(Roche Diagnostics, Basel, Switzerland). The small and dense fraction of  low density lipoproterína (sd LDL-cholesterol) will be determined after selective precipitation of the other lipoproteins with heparin and magnesium chloride. Quantification of insulin will be held in automated equipment Immulite 2000 (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics Inc - USA) with a set of reagents Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics- United States. Quantification of C-reactive protein of high sensitivity will be held in the automated nephelometer Behring BN II (Siemans Healthcare Diagnostics Products GMBH - Germany) with set of reagents Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics - United States). Cholesterol from low-density lipoprotein (LDL-c), the size of the low density lipoprotein particle (LDLnm) and insulin resistance were estimated by specific equations. Will be measured weight (kg) and height (meters), with equipment (Welmy, São Paulo-SP), consisting of scale with a capacity of 200 kilograms and 100 grams of scale and stadiometer with capacity up to 2.0 meters and scale 0.5 cm. The body mass index (BMI) will be estimated according to [weight / height squared]
Be enrolled in a public school of the city of Botuverá-SC, both genders.
Not included exclusion criteria.
49.6% of students had high values of total cholesterol and 25.8 % borderline values. high and borderline values of low density liproprotein (LDL-c) were found in 16.3% and 33.8 % of students, respectively, and 18.0 % of students had more atherogenic low density lipoprotein (LDL) pattern, based on the value of small and dense fraction of low density lipoprotein (sd- LDL-c) levels greater than 50 % of low density lipoprotein (LDL-c). Low high density lipoprotein (HDL-c) was observed in 20.8 % of children and adolescents. High and borderline triglyceride concentrations were found in 6.0% and 12.5 % of subjects, respectively.
13.0 % of students were overweight and 11.5 % obese. Among girls, 13.9 % were overweight and 8.6 % obese, while for the boys these values were 12.0% and 16.6 %, respectively.
Evaluation of intensive treatment of cellulite aesthetics.
Evaluation of intensive treatment of cellulite aesthetics.
Were evaluated a single group with 150 individuals. Was conducted a daily session for 10 days with a lymphatic drainage technique developed by Godoy movements characterized by manual compression and maintained following slide corresponding to the lymph nodes, prioritizing the chain of great saphenous vein for 50 minutes. Associated cervical stimulation for 15 minutes and lymphatic drainage mechanical device RAGodoy ® for one hour.
Body weight compatible with the height.
Obesity, edema, other evidence clinical disease.
Reduced perimeter of the regions with cellulite aesthetic
Evaluate reports of improvement of other physical conditions, such as relaxation, stress reduction, improved skin quality.
Effectiveness of an phythetapic in prevention and treatment of skin lesions caused by radiotherapy in patients with Head and Neck Cancer
Evaluating the efectiveness of calendula in the prevention and treatment of Head and Neck Radiodermatitis
The study consists of two arms (experimental and control): Experimental group: marigold use topically in the prevention and treatment of radiodermatitis; Control group: use essential fatty acids, for topical use in the prevention and treatment of radiodermatitis. Form ulitização product:
the skin applications were made with a gauze soaked with the product of research, through delicately throughout the treatment area. The product was applied every 12 hours (2 times / day) throughout the radiotherapy. Were randomized 33 patients in each arm of the study. Patients will be followed from the first day of treatment until 30 days after its completion. The skin will be assessed every 5 days according to the scale of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG).
Age above 18 years,diagnosis of cancer and head and neck radiotherapy, intact skin and continuous in the head and neck, first day of radiotherapy (if new), patients with no previous history of radiotherapy in the same field / local radiation,
Consent to participate in by signing the consent form (ICF).
Previous reports of allergic reaction in the use of one of the research products (essential fatty acids or marigold).
Outcomes observed: the degree radiodermitis 1 emerged from the tenth day of radiotherapy, with the highest incidence in the control group (AGE).
Outcomes observed: control group had a higher incidence of grade 2 radiodermitis compared with the experimental group.
The effect of music on the anxiety of children before surgery: a nursing intervention
The music listening applied to children undergoing surgery: a nursing intervention to relieve anxiety
Experimental group: 15 children aged 3-12 years during the preoperative period, will be submitted to hearing from randomly pre-selected instrumental music, with tempo 60-80 beats per minute, available through a device and MP3 Player a headset for 15 minutes.
Control group: 15 children aged 3-12 years during the preoperative period, will receive only the standard care in the surgical clinic for 15 minutes. But as masking strategy, after 15 minutes without receiving intervention and assessment of outcomes, the control group children also hear music, but now, without the intention to collect or evaluate data
children; age 3 to 12; both genders; to be subjected to any elective surgery; who agree to participate in the study, from the signing of free and informed consent term; that has a charge which agrees the child to participate in the research, from the signing of informed consent and informed

Children under 3 years of age and over 12 years; that will undergo emergency surgery; who have received premedication before the intervention to be tested; who have hearing problems and mental disorders; children or guardians who do not consent to take part or that are not available to participate in all stages of the study
Reduction of preoperative anxiety level checked by varying vital signs such as blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation, by method of statistical analysis and inferential nature as measures of frequency and central tendency, test chi-square and Fisher for comparison of frequencies, from the observation of a variation of at least 5% in the pre- and post-intervention measurements
Reducing the level of preoperative verified by the pattern of variation anxiety assessed by the modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Scale (YPAS-m) through inferential statistical analysis method such as die Wilcoxon and Mann-Whitney test for comparison of medians and percentiles of scores of YPAS-m, from the observation of a variation of at least 5% in pre and post intervention measurements
Selenium Concentration in Blood and Inflammatory Activity in Critically Ill Children
Plasma Selenium Concentrations and Erythrocyte Glutathione Peroxidase Activity: Relationship to Inflamatory Response and Nutritional Status in Critically Ill Children
Observational study to assess selenium plasma concentrations and erytrocyte glutathione peroxidase activity in critically ill children, nourished and malnourished,  receiving enteral tube feeding. Sample size: 173 patients. The study was observational, no intervention. Performed the measurement of plasma selenium and glutathione peroxidase activity on admission and on the 5th. day of hospitalization in the intensive care unit. Evaluated for clinical severity scores (PIM and PELOD), the inflammatory response (C-reactive protein) and nutritional status of patients. There was no food or medication supplementation. The patients received usual nutritional support in the intensive care unit.
Children admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit with a diagnosis of systemic inflammatory response syndrome, sepsis, septic shock or multiple organ systems.
Neonates, children with chronic renal or hepatic impairment, and suspected inborn error of metabolism.
Evaluation of requency and risk factors associated with low plasma selenium and glutathione peroxidase activity in red blood cells of critically ill children on admission and on the fifth day of hospitalization in the pediatric intensive care unit, considering the nutritional status and intensity of the inflammatory response. Nutritional status will be assessed by age, weight, height and their relationship on admission. The intensity of the inflammatory response will be assessed by measurement of plasma C-reactive protein on admission and on the fifth day of hospitalization. As a result, it is expected that patients with impaired nutrition (malnutrition) on admission and more intense inflammatory response during hospitalization have a lower plasma selenium concentration compared to patients without malnutrition and lower inflammatory response.
No secundary outcomes.
Phase 3 Study to Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Eribulin With Dacarbazine in Subjects With Soft Tissue Sarcoma

A Randomized, Open-label, Multicenter, Phase 3 Study to Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Eribulin With Dacarbazine in Subjects With Soft Tissue Sarcoma
One Arm (eribulin mesylate 1.4 mg/m2 intravenous): Administration of eribulin mesylate at a dose of 1.4 mg/m2 as an intravenous bolus infusion over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8 of every cycle, where the duration of each cycle is 21 days. Number of Participants is equal to 228.

Two Arm (dacarbazine of 850 mg/m2, or 1,000 mg/m2, or 1,200 mg/m2 intravenous: Administration of dacarbazine at a dose of 850 mg/m2, or 1,000 mg/m2, or 1,200 mg/m2 selected by the principal investigator or designee according to the subject
1.	Histologically confirmed diagnosis of soft tissue sarcoma of high or intermediate grade with one of the following histological subtypes: adipocytic sarcoma; including dedifferentiated, myxoid, round cell and pleomorphic leiomyosarcoma.
2.	Documented evidence of advanced (locally recurrent, locally advanced and/or metastatic) adipocytic (restricted to subtypes listed in Inclusion 1) or leiomyosarcoma, incurable by surgery and/or radiotherapy.
1.	Participants who have received any anti-cancer therapy, including radiotherapy, cytotoxic, hormonal, biological (including humanized antibodies) and targeted agents within 21 days, or five half-lives of the drug (whichever is longer) prior to randomization.
2.	Participants who have not recovered from acute toxicities as a result of prior anti-cancer therapy to less than or equal to Grade 1, according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), except for peripheral neuropathy (see Exclusion 6) and alopecia.
The primary objective of the study is overall survival. Overall survival is defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of death, regardless of cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, the participants will be censored either at the date that participant was last known to be alive or the date of study cut-off, whichever is earlier. The overall survival will be compared between the two treatment arms using a two-sided stratified log-rank test. The overall survival will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier estimates by treatment arm. Greenwood's formula will be used for the standard error of the Kaplan-Meier estimate in the calculation of the confidence limits.
Duration in months of progression-free survival (PFS) from the date of treatment start (day 1) to the date of first documentation of disease progression, or date of death (whichever occurs first). Disease progression was defined as at least a 20 percent increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study), recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors  (RECIST). 
Evaluation of chewing elderly patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis
Evaluation of masticatory capacity, pattern of mandibular movement, maximum bite force and quality of life in elderly patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis.
Experimental group 1: 15 elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis and joint involvement are evaluated for maximum bite force, masticatory performance, mandibular pattern of movement, quality of life and satisfaction with the prosthesis. 
Experimental group 2: 15 individuals with rheumatoid arthritis and without joint involvement are evaluated for maximum bite force, masticatory performance, mandibular pattern of movement, quality of life and satisfaction with the prosthesis. 
 Volunteer possessing equal to or above 60 years of age; both genders; partially or total edentulous
Individuals who present severe malocclusions; submit systemic disease that could also  affect the muscle activity;dementia
Decrease in maximum bite force values determined through the use of force transducers of at least 5% in the experimental groups compared to the control group; Decrease in masticatory performance values determined by test chewing material of at least 5% in the experimental groups compared to the control group; and decrease in standard values of mandibular movement determined utilizing a cinesiography of at least 5% in the experimental groups compared to the control group
Secondary outcomes are not expected
Measures of indicators of attention and action expectancy during task acomplishment
Attentional indicators between body action expectancy and selconsciousness in the performance in induced tasks
30 college students will participate in the study.

There will be used five instruments in the experiment, in the following sequence: 1) Selective Visual Attention Scale (Sisto 
Right handed; both genders; normal or corrected to normal vision; and should not drink coffee or alcohool for up to 4 hours before the experiment
Have self report of psychiatric disorders
The answers regarding the performance os motor consciousness and the answers regarding action expectation will correlate in standard sequences of the experimental variations, as per the mean results of the experiment and the questionaires.
The stable connection between the two patterns of response to break the insertion of experimental random sequences; high levels of visual selective attention will be correlated with the greater accuracy of discrimination of experimental variations, measured by motor performance awareness on the task; the highest correct discrimination rates in the performance of the assignment will be associated with lower average private self-awareness, self-absorption private, public and social anxiety self-absorption; the highest correct discrimination rates in the performance of the assignment will be associated with higher average insight, self-reflection, and public self-consciousness; different patterns of sequences of eye movements and emotional will feature profiles of groups of subjects regarding deviations (direction and magnitudes) performance in achieving the task.
Identification of Autism in Adults
Measuring the Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Aplication of a questionnaires with 63 questions related to clinical, demographic and cognitive/behaviral information of adults. The questionnaire was applied in 1000 adults divided into four groups: 50 adults with diagnosis of atypical autism; 160 adults in the general population; 770 University students, and 20 clevers adults (approved in the first place, at least, one public tender).
Adults higher 18 years, who have agreed to participate in the study and belonging to one of the following categories: Group1 formed by individuals diagnosed with atipical autism; Group2 individuals of the general population of Uberlândia; Group3 academic of the Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, and Grup4 formed by clevers adults, i.e, individuals approved in first place in a public service.
Individuals with less than 18 years and individuals who were unable to complete the questionnaire for any reason, such as dementia, aphasia or illiteracy were excluded.
It is expected to obtain measurements of the intensity of the trait of autism in adults in the population of Uberlândia, by means of a scale adapted and covalidada (AQ10), by means of a proposed and validated scale (RAS30); and by means a proposed and validated scale for peripheral aspects of autism (RIR45). The referred scales were proposed and validated by the authors.
Also it expected to correlate the Autism trait measures with other clinical, demographic, behavioral and cognitive parameters related to the target population.
Impact of exercise in ovseweight nondialyis dependent chronic kidney disease patients.  

Home-based vs in center aerobic exercise: impact on functional capacity, nutritional status and cardiometabolic parameters in overweight nondialysis dependent chronic kidney disease patients


Patients will be randomly assigned to perform the training program in center (n=20)or home-based (n=20). The training program will be conducted in accordance with the recommendations of the American College of Sports Medicine. All training sessions will be preceded by stretching of large muscle groups and heating (5 minutes) and at the end by cool down and stretching (5 minutes). The program will consist of 24 weeks with three sessions per week on alternate days. The aerobic training will be continuous, with an increment of 10 minutes in duration every 4 weeks. The intensity will be prescribed according to ventilatory threshold, characterized by the highest intensity of physical exertion fully maintained by aerobic energy pathways. The intensity control was done by means of the heart rate value obtained at ventilatory threshold.
Both groups receive the same intervention. However, a group exercise held in the center on a treadmill with the direct supervision of a physical education teacher. The other group will exercise at home with telephone follow-up weekly and once a month will be held at the training center under the supervision of a physical education teacher.
Sedentary individuals with chronic kidney disease stages 3 or 4 disease;
Both genders;
Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, class IV heart failure, myocardial infarction within the last 6 months, decompensated hypertension (systolic blood pressure
Increase of 3ml/kg/min in the oxigen uptake in the home-based exercice group. The peak oxigen consumption will be determined by the ergoespirometric test.
A 2% reduction in the visceral abdominal fat of patients in the home-based exercise group.  Abdominal fat will be assessed by computed tomography.
Impact of upper limbs exercises protocol on gait of children with Cerebral Palsy
Impact of upper limbs exercises on gait of children with Cerebral Palsy: a pilot trial
Upper limbs weight-bearing exercises protocol compared to a conventional physical therapy treatment for control group and to a second control group without therapies.
The protocol was applied in 5 subjects, twice a week during 40 minutes in 24 sessions, with at least one day of interval between each session. The conventional physical therapy was applied at the same frequency and period.
Children with clinical follow-up at AACD; diagnosed with spastic diplegic cerebral palsy; age between 3 and 13 years old; using type of gait aid; classified  level III of GMFCS (Gross Motor Function Classification System); able to attend the institution twice times a week; with 5 subjects for each group (total of 15 subjects).
Patients with less than 6 months of orthopedic surgical procedure and less than 3 months of neuromuscular blocking.
No statistically significant difference was found between the results after 12 weeks of protocol, of Six-Minute Walk Test, Ten-meter Walk Test and Timed Up and Go test in the in the interventional group.
Statistically significant difference was found in the trunk control capacity for intervencional group, correlated with static balance capacity, and for the control group, correlated with dynamic balance capacity.
Preoperative Testing: a New Protocol

Impact of Implementation of Preoperative Test Ordering Protocol at University Hospital Gaffrée and Guinle
Request Preoperative tests based on a local protocol built according to information from clinical evaluation as opposed to request routine laboratory tests. A group of 250 patients will preoperative tests called routine already historically established as a basic grid for preoperative assessment. A second group of 250 patients will be selective preoperative testing required according to the pre-operative clinical evaluation  and elicited by 2nd findings of this assessment such as age, associated diseases, used medications and surgery classification that will be submitted. Preoperative evaluation will be performed on an outpatient basis, at least 15 days before surgery
Patients scheduled to undergoing elective surgery at Hospital Universitário Gaffree e Guinle. Both genders. Older than 18 years. Preoperative assessment performed at Preoperative outpatient clinic of Hospital Universitário Gaffree e Guinle.
patients under 18 years. Emergency surgery. ASA physical status IV or V. Preoperative assessment performed in a different hospital
Full and individualized significant decrease in the number of preoperative tests requested without increase in the number of changes in anesthetic-surgical procedure or the number of perioperative complications
Statistically significant association between complications and the presence and number of associated diseases and between complications and functional capacity
Evaluation of a New Product to Treatment of Malaria in Brazil
Study of Efficacy and Safety of a New Co-blister Packs of Chloroquine and Primaquine for Malaria Treatment of Uncomplicated Plasmodium Vivax in Brasil

Cloroquine 150 mg + Primaquine 15 mg (manufacture by Fiocruz - in accordance to the Brazilian recommendations). During 7 days. It will be treated 88 patients with uncomplicated Malaria Vivax.
Age greather than or equal to 18 years and less than 65 years old or weight greather than 50 pounds a less than 80 pounds. Mono infection with P. Vivax confirmed by microscopy. Asexual parasite count greater than 250/ml. Axillary temperature greater than 37.5 ° C or history of fever 48 hours before the enrollment. Ability to swallow the drugs studied. Willing and able to meet the schedule of study assessments. Agree and sign an Informed Consent.
Presence of clinical conditions related to vivax malaria requiring hospitalization (coma, respiratory dysfunction, or severe anemia). Presence of febrile conditions because of another disease than malaria (for example: measles, acute respiratory tract infection, diarrhea with dehydration) or another chronic or severe comorbidities(for example: renal, cardiac or hepatic disease, and HIV/AIDS). Use of drugs that may affect the pharmacokinetics of antimalarial drugs in study, such as antacids may reduce the chloroquine absorption, cimetidine because the pharmacological effects of chloroquine may be increased, Quinacrine given increase in the toxicity of primaquine and drugs that change gastrointestinal motility, and in case of reported use of concomitant medications will be held on the database query Drug Interaction Checker (http://www.medscape.com/druginfo/druginterchecker?cid=med). Hypersensitivity to drugs in study. Presence of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, already known. Any disease or clinically significant findings during the medical evaluation or physical examination that, in the investigator
Clinical outcome (lack of fever, thus body temperature < 37 oC) and parasitological (tick smear negative for malaria by microscopy) at day 28.
Evaluate the Cloroquine plasma levels in filter paper at days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28.
Steroid Therapy for Autistic Children
Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of Corticosteroids for the Autistic Spectrum Disorder
Intervention Group: 20 subjects will receive oral prednisolone, in a dosage of 1 mg/kg/day, daily during eight weeks. From the ninth through the sixteenth weeks, patients will received a dosage of 1 mg/kg on alternate days. During the following eight weeks, the study medication will  continue to be given on alternate days and will be tapered as follows: 10% reduction of the initial dosage every week between the seventeenth and the twentieth weeks, then a 15% reduction per week on the twenty first through the twenty fourth weeks. Control Group: 20 subjects will receive a placebo dosage throughout 24 weeks, according to the same dosage as the active substance.
Male gender. Age range, 3-7 years. Autistic spectrum disorder diagnosed according to the criteria at the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-Fourth Edition-Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR). The subject
Diagnosis of epilepsy. Diagnosis of a neurodegenerative disease. Diagnosis of cerebral malformations. Past history of meningitis or encephalitis. Diagnosis of a mass lesion in the central nervous system. Diagnosis of any other neurologic disorder. Gestational history suggestive of fetal or perinatal distress. Patient dos not fully meet the diagnostic criteria of autism. Patient
The study primary endpoint is the subject's language function. During the course of the clinical trial, each subject will undergo four standardized assessments of his/her speech and language. Every assessment is performed by a speech pathologist and consists of the application of three formal tools, i.e.: ABFW (Language Assessment Test, a Brazilian test validated for autistic children). ADL (Language Development Assessment, another Brazilian test) and PEABODY (Picture Vocabulary Test, Third Edition). Each one these tools produces a score, and improvement criterion will be the score increase in the active substance group compared with the control group. Average increase in each score will be compared between the two groups using the unpaired Student's t test, and statistical significance is defined as lower than or equal to 0.05.
The study secondary endpoint is the subject score at CARS (Childhood Autism Rating Scale). Each subject receives a score just before the trial beginning and, immediately after the trial period, the scale score is reassessed. Degree of improvement in both groups will be measured and compared according to the score increase.
Treatment of Varicose Veins by Injection of Foam guided by Ultrasound
Treatment of Varicose Veins by Foam Sclerotherapy Ultrasound-guided
Experimental group: in patients members 91, elastic sock compression will be oriented in the first 48 hours; and the use of stocking by a further period of 3 weeks after the completion of 1 or 2 sessions with foam sclerotherapy (Polidocanol) via transdermal selected vein puncture with administration of 2 ml to 7.5 ml of prepared foam. The sessions will be conducted on an outpatient basis, in room with Duplex Scan set and basic support equipment life.

Control group: in 91 members of patients will be guided elastic compression only in the first 48 hours following the same procedure.
Aged between 18 and 60 years inclusive. Male and female sex. Informed consent authorization. Reflux diagnosed by Doppler ultrasound in any saphenous vein extension and / or trunk varicose veins measuring between 4 and 8mm in diameter inclusive. Varicose veins classified APEC 3,4,5 and 6. Body mass index (BMI) between 25 and 40kg/m2.
Patient with psychiatric disorder or limitation in the technique compreendimento. Women during pregnancy or risk pregnancy (without effective contraception) or nursing. Patients with a personal history of deep vein thrombosis and / or PET. Patients with known allergy to Polidocanol (synonyms: Lauromacrogol 400, macrogollauryleter, PEG9lauryl-alcohol). Patients with severe or chronic decompensated (hepatic insufficiency, renal insufficiency, CHF, COPD, respiratory insufficiency, progressive, malignant disease, hypertension and / or diabetes mellitus uncompensated). Intra-atrial or ventricular septal defect diagnosed by echocardiography. Closing of / attend the scheduled follow-ups. Patients who have Peripheral Arterial Disease Installed (ankle-brachial index less than 0, 9)
The expected primary outcome will be complete luminal occlusion of the vessel underwent embolization with polidocanol and use or non-use of elastic stockings for long periods. The method used to check the expected outcome will be the vascular echo doppler in 3 weeks, 3 months and 6 months after the procedure. The parameter that will be used to check the outcome actually occurred will be the absence of detectable speed through the vascular echo Doppler that show what actually occurred thrombosis within the vessel. 
The expected secondary outcome will be the presence of local and / or systemic complications of treatment. The method used to check the expected outcome will be the vascular clinical examination carried out in 3 weeks, 3 months and 6 months after the procedure. The parameter used to verify that the outcome actually occurred will be the presence of areas of dermal necrosis, tomboflebite symptomatic deep vein thrombosis, visual disturbances, chest pain, allergic reaction and death.
Effect of hydration on the mechanisms responsible for changes in blood pressure  after one session of aerobic exercise.
Effect of hydration on blood pressure response after exercise and its mechanisms.
A single group of healthy subjects will undergo 4 experimental sessions: one with exercise and previous hydration, one with exercise and without previous hydration, one without exercise but with previous hydration and one without exercise and hydration. The order of the execution of these sessions will be randomized for each subject. An interval of at least 48 hours will be garanteed between the sessions.
Healthy men
Sedentary
Individuals trained
Hypertension (systolic and diastolic blood pressures greater than or iqual to 130/85 mmHg)
Post-exercise hypotension - assessed by clinic blood pressure measurement (auscultation).
Vascular function - assessed by measuring basal blood flow and its response to the maneuver of venous compliance and reactive hyperemia (venous occlusion plethysmography) .
Program for health promotion in schools of public elementary school in the state of Rio Grande do Sul
Intervention program for health promotion in schools of public elementary school in the state of Rio Grande do Sul: clinical randomized study
Experimental group: 150 healthy children and adolescents enrolled in participating schools will receive nutrition education activities incorporated into the regular classes (monthly workshops, lasting two hours each, adapted to age, in class time, which will be continued, implemented by the teachers), support in the school environment (changes in the school´s snack bar to promote healthy eating), participation and family education promotion (students will receive activities to do at home that require assistance and / or parental involvement to be performed), extra curricular activities offering, with a focus on health promotion. 
Control group: 150 healthy children and adolescents enrolled in participating schools that do not receive any type of intervention. The schools were chosen randomly, by a specific software.
Healthy volunteers enrolled in participating schools; both genders; aged 2 to 18 years;
Health problems that do not allow anthropometric evaluation.
Primary outcome: reduction in the prevalence of overweight, as measured by the difference in BMI percentile, from the observation of a variation of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements;
Secondary outcome: improved eating habits, evaluated through the changes obtained from the food frequency questionnaire, from the observation of a variation of at least 5% in the pre and post intervention measurements.
Electrotherapy in the treatment of pain during intercourse and assessment of the outcomes on the quality of life and sexuality of women with deep endometriosis
Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) in the treatment of deep dyspareunia  and assessment of the impact on the quality of life and sexuality of women with deep endometriosis: randomized controlled trial
Group 1: 20 women with endometriosis will receive aplications of Conventional Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS)(Quark), once a week, for 30 minutes, during 8 weeks, in the sacral region. Group 2: 20 women with endometriosis will apply Self-applied Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS)(Tanyx), twice a week, for 20 minutos, during 8 weeks, in the sacral region. The women were randomized for gruop 1 or group 2.
Sexually active women. Women in menacme. Diagnosis of endometriosis estages III, IV and/or of the rectovaginal septum. Deep dyspareunia.
Decreased skin sensitivity preventing the perception of the electric stimulus. Pregnant women. Pacemaker users. Hypersensitivity (allergic reactions to the gel or electrode). Epilepsy. Heart disease (arrhythmia). Osteosynthesis at the application site. Open sores. Malignant tumors. Acute inflammatory disease. Other associated gynecological pathologies. Cognitive disabilities that prevente the understanding of the use of the tools and/or conventional electrotherapeutic treatment or do not understand instructions for the use of the self-applied TENS.
Deep dyspareunia relief and/or resolution analyzed through the visual analogue scale from the variance observed at least 5% of the pre and post treatment results.
Sexuality improvement measured through the Female Sexual Function Index from observations of 5% significance in the pre and post treatment results.
Assessment of preventive use of non steroidal antiinflammatory on increased pain sensibility  after third molar extraction
Assessment of preemptive use of non steroidal antiinflammatory on hyperalgesia after third molar extraction 
Twenty patients will be submitted to bilateral and symmetrical lower impacted third molar surgery in two sessions, with minimum interval of 30 days and will be divided into two groups (A and B), in a randomized, crossover and double-blind scheme. Group A: patients will receive placebo capsule on 25, 19, 13 and 7 hour before surgery plus ibuprofen 600 mg, 1 hr. before surgery. Group B: patients will receive ibuprofen 600mg on 25, 19, 13, 7 hours and 1 hour before surgery. All patients will receive paracetamol 750 mg q.i.d. for 2 days postoperatively. Codein 30mg will be used as rescue analgesic in case of paracetamol treatment failure. Visual analog scale will be applied immediately and 3, 8, and 24 hours after surgery. Semmes-Weistein filaments will be applied on 2 intraoral points, before and 24 hours after surgery. Mouth opening degree will be measured before and 24 hours after surgery.  The number of patients who consume rescue analgesic in the postoperative period will be recorded.

Patients older than 18 years who agree to participate in research, with good general health,  without any medicine intake in the last 15 days (except contraceptives),  patients who have indicated bilateral extraction of impacted lower third molar, in similar conditions on both sides.
Patients who do not want to participate in the study, patients who have used any drug in the last 15 days (except contraceptives), pregnancy, breastfeeding, and presence of pericoronitis related to lower third molar, patients who report history of allergies or adverse drug effects used in the study, actual or past history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding, renal failure, advanced liver disease and coagulopathy. 
Primary outcome found: It was observed more relief of postoperative pain using ibuprofen preoperative multiple doses compared to use of ibuprofen preoperative single-dose, 3 and 8 hours after surgery (2.2 ± 2.1 vs. 3 7 ± 2.9, 2.7 ± 2.2 vs. 3.7 ± 3.4, 3 hours and 8 hours, respectively, p <0.05). For verification, it was used the reduction at least of 15 millimeters on the visual analog scale.
Although there has been increased consumption of rescue analgesic in the group that used ibuprofen preoperative single-dose, the rate of this event was small, and it was no possible any inference. The number of patients who used the rescue analgesic in the postoperative period was recorded for evaluation.
Clinical evaluation of bulk fill resin restorations
Class I restoration performance with bulk fill composites randomized clinical trial
36 teenagers from 12-18 years of age, showing 3 teeth with cavities or deficient restorations in posterior teeth will be recruited. All three teeth will be restored with 2 
Presence of third molars with vital need for restoration replacement Class I occlusal caries in the primary or occlusal surface; Age range 12 to 18 years; Absence of parafunctional habits and non-carious cervical lesions; Occlusal contact antagonist tooth; Patient with good general health; Do not have any contraindication for dental treatment.
Advanced periodontal disease; Molars with pulp change or endodontic treatment; Molars with carious lesions in other surface than the occlusal and continuity with the occlusal cavity; Pulp exposure during caries removal or very deep cavities; Spontaneous pain or tenderness to percussion; Smokers.
The clinical behavior posterior teeth restorations according to the Modified FDI criteria (World Dental Federation). This criteria evaluates the following disclosures: surface gloss, staining surface and marginal, color stability and translucency, anatomical shape, fractures and retentions, marginal adaptation, contour and occlusal wear, patients opinion, postoperative sensitivity, recurrent caries, dental fracture. Evaluations will be performed under visual evaluation with direct artificial light, exploratory probe and radiographic examination. Evaluations will take place at different periods: 1 week after the restorative procedure (baseline), 6, 12 and 18 months.
Secondary disclosures are note expected
Evaluation of movements, mastication and satisfaction of denture wearers after use of two adhesives
Eletrocinesiographic evaluation, of masticatory performance and satisfaction of complete denture wearers after use of two adhesives
Patients with new conventional complete dentures will be randomly divided into two experimental protocols. Protocol 1 - adhesive 1 (cream) use for 15 days before the test, followed by non-use of adhesive (washout) during the next 15 days, and adhesive 2 (powder) use for another 15 days before the test,Protocol 2 - adhesive 2 use for 15 days before the test, followed by non-use of adhesive (washout) during the next 15 days, and adhesive 1 use for 15 days before the test. The masticatory performance will be evaluated by the sieves method in each stage of the study.
Adults; mentally agile and responsive;
resilience and alveolar volume normal;
Debilitating neurological or systemic diseases; cardiac pacemaker; need for pre-prosthetic surgery
Statistically significant differences in masticatory performance assessed by the sieves method between the use of complete dentures without adhesives and after use of two adhesives evaluated
Statistically significant differences in masticatory performance assessed by the sieves method between the use of complete dentures with each of the two adhesives evaluated
Effects of physiotherapy followed by the motor imagery on the mobility of patients with Parkinson
Repercussions of motor training followed of mental practice in functional mobility of patients with Parkinson
All 20 enrolled patients will undergo 15 sessions of Motor Physical Therapy (FM), a motor training protocol, 2 times a week, lasting 40 minutes each session. After patients have completed all 15 sessions of FM, will be reassessed and then will be held the randomization of patients and training of groups: mental practice (MP) and control (CG), which will have 10 patients each. Patients will be divided in these groups by means of a random number sequence generated by the table www.randomization.com.
After allocating the GC will run out of physical therapy, being oriented only carry out the activities of the Patient Handbook with DP Pro-Parkinson Program: Physiotherapy Hospital das Clinicas, Federal University of Pernambuco. After five weeks doing manual activities of the GC will again be re-evaluated.
Patients with clinical diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson
Patients with other neurological diseases; patients reporting uncompensated systemic diseases (untreated), such as hypertension; with compromised cognitive level assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE); unsatisfactory motor imagination assessed by questionnaire Visual Imagery and Kinesthetic (KVIQ-20); in physical therapy service for 3 months or more.

Statistically significant reduction in average time of completion of the timed up group Go mental practice test compared with the control group.
Statistically significant differences between the mean scores of the scales (evaluation freezing while driving, fatigue and quality of life) of the mental practice and control group, indicating better results than mental practice group.
Effect of nursing interventions using the telephone
Effectiveness of nursing interventions using the telephone 
Experimental group: 52 family caregivers of people with chronic diseases  will receive 5 sessions of psycho-educational interventions using phone with a duration of 40 minutes, 1 time per week for 5 weeks. Intervention sessions integrate activities of the following Nursing Interventions Classification: Caregiver Support and Improvement of coping. The interventors will be trained nurses.

Control group: 52 family caregivers of people with chronic diseases  will receive will usual care offered by the study site.
Being a family caregiver of a person with chronic illness; aged over 18 years; reading and writing,to have a longer than a month taking care of the family; to  have telephone service, to have a nursing diagnosis Caregiver Role Strain

Caregiver with cognitive impairment, assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) test;to have limitations for speech and hearing
The outcomes will be the level of role caregiver strain  as well as the improvement in the perception of well-being  by family caregivers of people with chronic diseases.  Tools for assessing outcomes:  Scale for evaluating the nursing diagnosis Caregiver Role Strain: Scale developed and validated by the responsible members of this research. This was the result of a previous search.  Scale evaluation of the results of the Welfare Family Caregiver: Scale developed and validated by the responsible members of this research. This was the result of a previous search.  The family caregivers will be assessed at the time of inclusion in the study, 1 month and 3 months after the last intervention for the experimental group; 9 and 17 weeks after inclusion in the study for the control group.  To evaluate the effect size of the intervention on the average final grades of the scale of diagnosis and result of nursing, the second and third assessment in experimental group o and control group, will be calculating the value of d Cohen and the coefficient of the differences between the control group and intervention. As an intervention measure of impact it will calculate the number needed to treat (NNT) with 95% confidence intervals
Improvement in the perception of well-being and quality of life by family caregivers of people with chronic diseases.  WHOQOL-BREF instrument: Instrument used to assess quality of life, translated and validated in Brazil.
Maltodextrin alter glycemia on Diabetics
Dose-Dependent Effect of  Maltodextrin on Cardiovascular and Glucose Response in Type 2 Diabetes During Aerobic Exercise
The subjects of the study, six healthy volunteers aged between 40 and 60 years, diagnosed with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus from medical records and health units in the of Engenheiro Gutierrez and Riozinho in Irati - PR.
Acutely on the day of the experiment, the subjects received the supplement containing 100mg/kg (control) or 1g/kg 2g/kg maltodextrin dissolved in 450 ml of distilled water. After intake of the supplement, subjects remained seated (rest) for thirty minutes after the start of exercise.
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Physical Disability, Limiting Pathology, Age 
For inclusion of individuals to the interview was conducted a clinical interview where he was selected persons who had type 2 diabetes aged between 40 and 60 years, and if there were any limiting condition (eg Osteo-muscular Disease, Arthritis, Diseases cardiac, respiratory diseases) were excluded.
Before exercise or supplementation, was measured Blood Pressure (BP) and Heart Rate (HR), and if the PA was greater than 140 mm / Hg for systolic and 90 mm ??/ Hg diastolic, this individual was not requiring the physical test . The same occurred with blood glucose levels, where levels higher than 150 mg / dL were considered at risk for exercise. During the year, BP, HR, plasma glucose and Borg scale (level of effort) were measured respectively, and questioned if some guy was putting at risk, the test was interrupted physical.
Releasing adhesive use on premature with  transparent dressingfor fixing central catheter: randomazed clinical trail


Releasing adhesive use on premature with semipermeable transparent film por PICC (Peripheral Inserted Central catheter) fixation: randomazed clinical trail
50 newborns in use of peripheral inserted central catheter and admitted to newborn intensive care unit have a dressing change, 50 of these by applying adhesive releaser for removal of the previous dressing (intervention group) and 50 by traditional techniques without the use of the product (control group). by applying adhesive releaser for removal of the previous dressing. The dressing will be held in the first 24 hours after the puncture of the catheter and subsequent exchanges will be held once a week or when necessary (loose bandage, presence of bleeding , catheter traction). The participant will be followed for a period of 15 days after the inclusion of research for assessment of pain and the development of skin lesion .
Premature infants less than 36 weeks gestational age at birth;
RNs in use of semipermeable film transparent for fixing of peripheraly inserted central cateter (PICC) inserted in the first two weeks of life;
Presence of the skin lesion near of the catheter, prior to insertion;
Fixing the peripheraly inserted central cateter (PICC) with different material than transparent semipermeable film;
Prevention of skin lesions in preterm infants by using adhesive releasing the exchange of dressing of central catheter  peripherally inserted. For skin assessment for the occurrence of lesions will be used STAR system (Skin Tear Classification System), complemented by clinical evaluation of the nurse responsible for the procedure for the presence of bleeding, hyperemia or no skin changes. In the presence of any skin change the patient is classified as to the presence of skin lesions.
Prevention of newborn pain during dressing change of the peripheral inserted central catheter by using adhesive releaser. For pain assessment will be used to NIPS (Pain Rating Scale in RN and Infant) for evaluation of pain before and during the procedure. The assessment of pain before and during will be compared for changes.
Training and reaching in premature infants
Evaluation of a training on the performance of reaching in late preterm infants
Intervention - Experimental Group (EG)

Frequency and total duration of the intervention: single section, with duration of 4 minutes.
Infants born between 34 weeks and 36 weeks and 6 days of gestational age (late preterm infants), appropriate for gestational age, with first and fifth minute Apgar Scores greater than 7, with adequate motor performance according to the Alberta Infant Motor Scale (AIMS), without major pre- and perinatal complications, and at maternal care.
Infants who do not attend the evaluations/training in the scheduled period (until 5 days after the infant reaching acquisition) or do not perform reaching movements at the pre-training evaluation.
Reaching Performance: measured as the mean values of kinematics variables of reaching movement (straightness index, deceleration time, mean and final velocities, movement unit) and as the frequencies of uni/bimanual movements and hand opening/orientation when the infant touches the object. The gain in the reaching performance will be considered as the:  increase in the values of straightness index between pre-training and post-training; increase in the values of deceleration time concomitant to the decrease in the values of mean and final velocities between pre-training and post-training; decrease in the values of movement units between pre-training and post-training; increase in the values of the frequencies of unimanual and bimanual reaches between pre-training and post-training; increase in the values of the frequencies of open hand between pre-training and post-training; increase in the values of the frequencies of hand vertical orientation between pre-training and post-training.
Success of Grasping: measured by the frequency of reaches with object grasping. The gain in the success of grasping will be considered as the increase in the values of the frequencies of grasps between pre-training and post-training.
Evaluation of gingival inflammation after bleaching with hydrogen peroxide in diferente strengths: clinical study randomized 
Evaluation of fluid gingival after bleaching with hydrogen peroxide in diferente strengths: clinical study randomized
Control Group: bleaching with 35% hydrogen peroxide - It will be held in bleaching hemi arcade 22 patient. Before applying the whitening teeth cleaning will be done with prophylactic paste and water, draw the hemi arcade by sealed envelope, and protection of the soft tissues with light cured gingival barrier for 20 seconds. The gel will be handled in the proportion of 3 drops of peroxide to 1 thickener, and applied on the labial surface of the teeth of 2nd premolar to the central incisor with the aid of a spatula, remaining in contact with the tooth surfaces for 15 minutes. After this time, the product is removed by suction and the gel reapplied in the same conditions two more times totaling three applications of 15 minutes each. The same treatment protocol is carried out after seven days.

Experimental group: bleaching with 15% hydrogen peroxide. It will be applied to the product in hemi opposing arch of the same 22 patients. Before applying the bleaching is performed with prophylactic teeth cleaning and water paste, and protection of the soft tissues with light cured gingival barrier for 20 seconds. The gel will be handled in the proportion of 3 drops of peroxide to 1 thickener and applied on the labial surface of the teeth of 2nd premolar to the central incisor opposed to the control group, remaining in contact with the tooth surfaces for 15 minutes. After this time, the product is removed by suction and the gel reapplied in the same conditions two more times. Totaling three applications of 15 minutes each. The same treatment protocol is carried out after seven days.
Healthy volunteers; aged between 18 and 40; with teeth free of carious lesions; free of periodontal disease; at least an upper anterior tooth color A2 or higher value.


Volunteers with poor oral hygiene; pregnant women; breastfeeding; patients who have already done tooth whitening; smoking; with restorations in anterior teeth; endodontic treatment; dental prosthesis on anterior teeth; presence of dental cracks, gingival recessions; carious cervical lesions; fractures; spontaneous tooth sensitivity; severe internal discoloration; bruxism habits; patients who use drugs with analgesic or anti-inflammatory effect; patients with fixed orthodontic appliances.  
color difference between the sides cleared the end of the study, verified by classical vita scale bleaching vita and the Spectrophotometer Easy Shade device, from finding a variation of at least three points in pre and post intervention analysis.
sensitivity difference between the whitened sides, checked on a scale (NRS) and visual analogue scale (VAS), from finding a variation of two points on a scale and four-point visual analog scale in the analysis pre and post intervention. Difference in cytokine levels in the gingival crevicular fluid (inflammation) after bleaching, through the concentration of inflammatory mediators (interleukins) in the analysis pre and post intervention . Difference in the volume of gingival crevicular fluid after bleaching, checked by the amount of fluid present in the analysis pre and post intervention.
Intervention by phone with patients and families in radiotherapy
Intervention by phone: strategy for managent of anxiety and patientes family treatment in radiotherapy


Intervention group: 45 radiotherapy patients and their respective family (n = 90) will receive two phone calls in the seventh and fifteenth day of treatment. The links will last about fifteen minutes and will be performed during patient treatment period in order to address information about radiotherapy and to learn how the participant is feeling regarding the treatment and can answer questions about it. Control Group: 45 radiotherapy patients and their respective family (n = 90) will receive two phone calls in the seventh and fifteenth day of treatment. The links will have approximately four minutes and will be performed during patient treatment period, with the aim of informing the participant about the scheduling of radiotherapy sessions.
patient: age less than 18 years, both sexes, have handset available with signal capture. Family: age less than 18 years; both sexes; be present with the patient in the first nursing consultation in the radiotherapy clinic. The population of study will be composed to 90 persons in the interventional group and 90 persons in the control group. 
Patient: absence of medical conditions, cognitive and / or communication. Family: lack of health conditions, cognitive and/or communication.
Expected outcome: Reduction of anxiety scores identified by IDATE, in three weeks and verified by the Student t test, considering a variation of at least 10% in pre and post-intervention measurements.  Outcome found: Reduction of anxiety scores identified by IDATE, in three weeks and verified by the Student t test, considering a variation of at least 11.1% in the pre- and post-intervention measurements (p 0.036)
Secondary outcomes are expected not.
Evaluation of performance motor in infants at risk
Evaluation of performance motor in infants at risk

The 100 children, aged 0-18 months from the risk clinic were evaluated monthly, with minimal handling, for 20 to 30 minutes. At the end of the evaluation if the child had normal motor development, received high if present suspected motor development, guidelines were made, and if it were detected atypical motor development, was sent to the intervention Treatment Center and Early Stimulation. The guidelines were communicated to parents or caregivers, always related to stimuli according to motor acquisition that the child should have at his age, such as greater experience on the ground, provide with playful objects engines stimuli (ask for the child to catch a object in cats, or walking side with support, supine position stimuli to prone, or prone to sitting or from sitting to standing, or standing to the side gait, proprioceptive stimuli with objects of different textures, shapes, and environments with different obstacles such as sand, mattress, soil).
Submit medical records at the clinic of the MEAC, is not participating in intervention programs.
Joint and muscle conditions and infections with fever.
The primary clinical endpoint will be the motor development assessed by Alberta Infant Motor Scale (AIMS). A measurement will be made, at baseline and four monthly measurements.
AIMS score in percentile ranges: <5 to 10, atypical motor development, 25 to 50, suspected motor development and from 75 to 90, normal motor development.
Yôga and Respiratory Techniques on HF Patients
Yôga and Respiratory Techniques Training on the Management of Heart Failure Patients
Experimental Group 1: 16 patients attend Yoga sessions for 45 minutes to 1 hour, 2 times/ week for 2 months
Experimental Group 2: 16 patients attend Respiratory Techniques (pranayàma)sessions for 45 minutes to 1 hour, 2 times/ week for 2 months
Stable HF patients in an ambulatory care setting at ULBRA-Mãe de Deus University Hospital, with a diagnosis of HF with Preserved or Reduced Fraction.
Aged 45 to75 years old.
Not signing the Informed Consent.
Not being able to do physical activity (angina, AMI with less than 6 months and / or stenting with persistent angina, severe valvular disease, chemotherapy, implanted defibrillator, NYHA functional class IV, medium and severe COPD).
Improvement inpiratory muscle strength by measuring maximal inspiratory pressure(PImax).
Improvement in functional Capacity (Classification NYHA)
Complementary Therapies to reduce stress  and anxiety and to improve quality of life
Applicability of Complementary Therapies to reduce pain, stress, anxiety and improving quality of life
Experimental group: 30 subjects from the  ITIO Reiki Clinic will receive Gan May Da Zao, 2 bottles (50 ml) in an alcoholic extract, 15 drops 3 times a day, diluted in water, for 1 month.
Placebo group: 30 subjects from the ITIO Reiki Clinic will receive 2 bottles of placebo. It is comprised of mineral water and brandy, a base used in floral therapy, 15 drops, 3 times a day, diluted in water, for 1 month.
•	Inclusion Criteria: The patients who are treated by the ITIO Reiki Clinic between June and September of 2015 will be invited and 90 people will be randomized (80% power and 95% confidence interval), which have middle and  high level of stress score on the Stress Symptoms List (LSS) 
•	Exclusion Criteria: pregnant women; subjects who go on vacation or sick leave during the research period; those who begin to use allopathic medicines for anxiety and antidepressants or other energy therapies to manage stress and anxiety. Those who are receiving psychological therapy, however, won’t be excluded and will be oriented to continue such treatment.
Reducing stress levels according to the Stress Symptoms List in the pre and post measurements using Chinese herbal medicine for 4 weeks considering a variation of at least 5%
Reducing anxiety levels according to the Trait State Anxiety Inventory in the pre and post measurements using Chinese herbal medicine for 4 weeks considering a variation of at least 5%
Effects of  pulmonary re-expansion maneuver on patients receiving mechanical ventilation 
Effects of Manual Chest Compression and Descompression Maneuver on Lung Volumes, Capnography and Pulse Oximetry in Patients Receiving Mechanical Ventilation 
After 24 hours of mechanical ventilation 65 patients were placed in supine position with the head of bed elevated to an angle of 30o and carried out a chest radiograph.
Thereafter they were submitted to bronchial hygiene  according to the following protocol: manual chest compression and vibrations in the expiratory phase of respiratory cycle in the previous chest wall during 10 minutes and endotracheal suctioning with open system following to the instructions of the American Association of Respiratory Care.
Age greater than 18 years
Patients on mechanical ventilation
Intracranial hypertension 
Reverse atelectasis after the application of the manual chest compression and decompression maneuver, from the measurement of lung volumes following: inspiratory tidal volume (VTi), expiratory tidal volume (VTE), minute volume, and measurement of oxygen saturation (SpO2), capnography (Pet CO2).
Improvement in pulmonary volume Improvement in pulse oximetry Reduction occurred in expiratory CO2 No alteration occurred in heart rate and mean arterial pressure
Comparison of the effect the lysine clonixinate (Dolamin ®) and ibuprofen (Advil ®) in reducing pain in patients with tendinopathy
A Randomized single-blinded, parallel group and unicentric Phase IV Clinical Study of non-inferiority, comparing the drug Lysine Clonixinate (Dolamin®) and Ibuprofen (Advil®) in reducing acute pain related to tendinopathy in patients
Comparison group: 82 patients will receive Lysine Clonixinate 125 mg, three (3) times a day, 8 (eight) in 8 hours for 7 (seven) consecutive days. Control group: 82 patients will receive ibuprofen 200 mg, three (3) times a day, 8 (eight) in 8 hours for 7 (seven) consecutive days., three (3) times a day, eight (8) in 8 hours for 7 (seven) consecutive days. In the event of  severe pain related to tendinopathies during the study and post-study, a patient receives rescue medication to be a coated tablet 500 mg of paracetamol, 4 in 4 hours.


Volunteers be carrying from acute pain related to tendinopathy (tendinitis, tenosynovitis and bursitis of the shoulders, wrists / hands, knees and ankles / feet and require immobilization;
age between 18 and 65 (sixty five) years; Indicate, in max, grade 7 in the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of pain; Having signed and dated the 
None of the patients included in this study should be carrying from acute pain related to tendinopathy at the hip; having a history of asthma or bronchospasm, nasal polyps, allergic reactions and / or induced by acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or other anti-inflammatory drugs; history of gastrointestinal bleeding due to the use of NSAIDs; is receiving treatment with other anti-inflammatory drugs, corticosteroids or analgesics; Is receiving treatment with oral anticoagulants, ticlopidine, heparin and thrombolytics; be pregnant and / or lactating; be hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the components of the formula;
8. Be a regular user of alcohol and barbiturates; have hepatic or renal impairment.
Lysine Clonixinate is not inferior to ibuprofen in reducing acute pain related to tendinopathy.
Lysine Clonixinate showed similar tolerability to ibuprofen
Comparison of two drugs to prevent nausea and vomiting after surgery for reducing the stomach
Palonosetron versus ondansetron for postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis in laparoscopic gastroplasty in morbid obese patients - a randomized controlled noninferiority trial
Experimental group: 83 patients undergoing bariatric surgery will be given intravenous palonosetron 0.075 mg, before anesthesia induction. Control group: 83 patients undergoing bariatric surgery will be given intravenous ondansetron 8 mg, before the induction of anesthesia and 8 and 16 hours after the surgery. The drugs will be given after randomization, according to aleatory distribution in the groups
Adult patients undergoing elective laparoscopic gastroplasty; both sexes; 20 to 65 years old; physical state I and II according to American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA); body mass index equal or higher than 35 kg/m2
Use of antiemetics for 48 hs before surgery; those with hiatal hernia
Postoperative nausea and/or vomiting incidence, verified by clinical observation and reported as yes or no, according to the presence of the symptom. Expected incidence of nausea and/or vomiting is 25% of patients in each group.
Total dose of dimenhydrinate (rescue medication) used, verified by its administration (yes or no), reported as the need of use. It is expected that 40 doses of dimenhydrinate in each group will be administered.
Stimulation of reaching behavior using sticky mittens in preterm infants
Practice of reaching using sticky mittens in preterm infants: randomized controlled clinical trial
Intervention - Experimental Group (EG)

Frequency and total duration of the intervention: single section, with duration of around 4 minutes.
Infants born with less than 37 weeks of gestational age; with first and fifth minute Apgar Scores greater than 7;  without major pre- and perinatal complications; at maternal care.
High-risk infants; with clinical signs/diagnosis of neurological impairment, congenital malformations, genetic syndromes, visual and auditory alterations, cardiorespiratory difficulties or musculoskeletal impairment; who do not collaborate during pre-training and post-training measures.
Reaching Performance: measured as the frequencies of uni/bimanual movements and hand opening when the infant touches the object, as well as the mean values of kinematics variables of reaching movement (velocity, acceleration) The improvement in the reaching performance will be considered as the following:  Increase in the values of the frequencies of unimanual and/or bimanual reaches between pre-training and post-training; Increase in the values of the frequencies of open and/or semi-open hand between pre-training and post-training; Increase in the mean values of velocity and acceleration between pre-training and post-training.
Object Grasping Success: measured by the frequency of reaches with object grasping. The gain in the success of grasping will be considered as the increase in the values of the frequencies of grasps between pre-training and post-training.
Relationship between the muscles thigh characteristics and sensory and motor changes for subjects with early degrees of knee osteoarthritis
Correlation between vastus lateralis morphology and neuromuscular control for patients with knee osteoarthritis grade I and II 

cross sectional study, without intervention
The following inclusion criteria were used: male, sedentary, aged between 40 and 65 years. All the subjects underwent a radiological examination of both knees to confirm  that they displayed signs of osteoarthritis (OA) (for osteoarthritis group) or not (for control group), such as the presence of osteophytes in at least one of the compartments of a knee joint (tibiofemoral or patellofemoral). In OA group the severity of OA was graded by a radiologist according the Kellgren 
The exclusion criteria were: physical therapy (previous 12 months); knee or hip surgery; history of lower limb trauma; corticosteroid infiltration of the knee (previous 6 months); medical condition.
To detect that subjects with knee osteoarthritis show morphological muscle and neuromuscular changes that may already be present in early degrees of knee osteoarthritis. To evaluate the outcomes data will be compared torque and acceleration time (obtained during isokinetic evaluation) between healthy subjects and subjects with knee osteoarthritis. It will also analyze the proportion and type of muscle fibers through the morphological analysis of the muscular fragments, which also compared healthy subjects with subjects with knee osteoarthritis
Through the results of the primary outcomes will be provided a scientific basis to contribute to the clinical practice, directing rehabilitation programs
Catheter use evaluation in peripheral vein
Effectiveness of peripheral venous catheter
The sample size calculation, coming from a pilot test, pointed the minimum requirement of 75 adult patients admitted to medical and / or surgical units for each group researched. A catheter was only evaluated by the patient, since its insertion to removal of the same (range one to ten days).Puncture and handling of catheters was held exclusively by the nursing staff, properly trained to do so.

Experimental group: we included 90 adult patients of both genders, who made complete security catheter use (under registration at ANVISA No. 10033430369) in the peripheral catheterization for intravenous infusions.
Age between 18 and 100 years; both sexes; admitted to clinics / and / or surgical units searched the hospital; obtain peripheral venous access in the upper limbs, in gauges 20 and / or 22 gauges; prior authorization or first degree relative to participate in the study prior to venipuncture, by signing the Informed Consent and Informed.
Present fragility of peripheral venous network that prevents the puncture peripheral catheter; allergic reaction known to the material of catheters.
The expected outcomes are the primary are local complications of peripheral venous catheterization, verified through direct observation of the devices, as well as reading the records in physical records. The incidence of complications is detected based on literature Phillips (2001) and Infusion Nurses Society (INS, 2011). 
Measurement and comparison of the length of stay in days of catheters in each group researched, free of complications, by direct observation of the devices and reading the records. Analysis of risk factors associated with local complications resulting by statistical calculations with the aid of Bioestat program. Analysis of the findings outcomes will be held immediately after the completion of data collection to the period of one year.
Assessment of the effects of TENS in patients with low back pain treated with acupuncture.
The assessment of the effects of analgesia in transcutaneous electrical stimulation associated with acupuncture in patients with chronic low back pain.
Three groups of patients, each consisting of 15 patients will undergo acupuncture sessions - totaled 10 for each patient in each group - will be carried out by the researcher, and used a total of 6 dorsal acupoints: B-23 (Shenshu) - located below the spinous process of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, 1.5-inch lateral to the posterior midline bilaterally. B-24 (Qihaishu) - that is 1.5 tsun next to the VG Energy Channel, leveled the ledge below the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra, bilaterally, and the B-25 point (Dachangshu) which is 1.5 tsun beside vg3, leveled to the ledge below the spinous process of the fourth lumbar vertebra; also used bilaterally. Will be evaluated during each session, possible adverse events associated with acupuncture, including: pain, dizziness, nausea, sweating, among others. The groups of patients evaluated: G.1: receive acupuncture treatment only; the G.2: receive acupuncture treatment associated with TENS and G.3: you receive TENS treatment only. All sessions in all groups will last 20 minutes. Treatment with transcutaneous electrical stimulation associated with acupuncture (G.2), and isolation (G.3), carried out with the following parameters: frequency of 60Hz and 250Hz period with high intensity and comfortable for the patient.
protocols will be used, with technique to use the interview and based on content involving issues such as quality of life and sensory discomfort, defined as follows:
Patients aged from 40 years; both sexes; with a history of low back pain for more than three months.
In addition to not meet the inclusion, they will also be considered affected or carriers of any concomitant arthropathy; those who are undergoing cancer treatment; which have chronic diseases or changes in neurological examination as Parkinson
Identify the most used technique provides time without pain to the patient. Waiting as final outcome the reduction of pain in these patients.
Through analog pain scale (EVA), inform the visual and personal aspect of pain that each patient has
Effects of Cardiac Rehabilitation and Respiratory Capacity and Physical Behavior of Oxygen Consumption in Cardiac Patients
Effects of Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation on Exercise Tolerance Time (Tlim) and Oxygen Uptake Kinetics in Ischemic Heart Disease
51 patients (single group) will do the rehabilitation training of the study, and will have their heart rate monitored during all sessions of physical training. This training will consist of supervised aerobic exercise and resistance, always preceded by stretching the upper and lower limbs and warming up exercise phase. Training sessions will last 60 minutes (40 min of aerobic training, and 20 min of resistance training). Aerobic exercise training is prescribed considering the load and heart rate range, which will be obtained in the anaerobic threshold or  ventilatory threshold1 (VT1) by Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET), the maximum incremental ramp protocol, or the useful functional capacity assessed by electrocardiogram. Resistance training was individualized according to the physical conditions of an estimated 40 to 50% of maximal voluntary strength. Trainings occur 2 to 3 times per week, alternating to each of two sessions a session of the lower limbs. Participants will be subjected to cardiopulmonary exercise testing with maximal incremental ramp protocols (MIR) and submaximal constant load (SCL) or 
Patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of the left ventricle than or equal to 35% of both sexes. The minimum age of 18 years and maximum 90 years.
Functional limitations not related to the cardiovascular system. Such as disabling lung diseases and tumors of advanced degree.
Increased tolerance of exercise time during constant workload test (in minutes) and shorter duration of oxygen uptake kinetics (tau, an indirect marker of oxidative metabolism) in seconds. It is estimated, after 3 months supervised physical training an increase of at least 10% in the time in minutes (min) exercise tolerance and a reduction of at least 5% at time kinetics in seconds (s), based on previous studies using other types of intervention such as drugs or percutaneous cardiac intervention (PCI).
Increased quality of life assessed by SF 36 which shows a final score ranging from 0 to 100, where "0" is the worst overall health status and "100" the best. It is expected an increase in the score of this general health questionnaire.
Intervention program for physical activity and consumption of fruits and vegetables in college
Impact of an intervention to increase physical activity levels and frequency of dietary intake of fruits and vegetables in college students: a randomized study
Students will be divided into three groups : two intervention , called GI1 and GI2 , and control , termed GC . The G1 and G2 receive for 16 weeks via email material of an educational nature related to how to incorporate and maintain an active lifestyle and healthy life . Furthermore the GI1 will practice physical activity during the period of two days a week in 50 minute sessions , totaling 30 sessions . The activities consist of practical exercises and sports with moderate intensity and according to the modality of interesse.As sessions will be structured as follows: initial activity stretching and heating (10 min ) , main part , with moderate to vigorous intensity activities ( 30 minutes) and final part , or 
Student of UFRPE; 18 - 24 years; regularly enrolled at headquarters.
Be carrying some kind of physical or mental disability; being in pregnancy, have health problems that would prohibit the practice of physical activity; do not have e-mail, be in academic exchanges (Brazilian or foreign)
Increased consumption of fruits and vegetables and physical activity checked by increasing the number of portions consumed and minutes of practice in up to 20% compared to time zero.
Increased self-efficacy, the change strategy, perceptions of facilitators, perception of barriers, support from parents and friends through participation in intervention.
Spiritual well-being resulting from passive listening of sacred music in bereaved relatives: randomized controlled trial
Spiritual well-being resulting from passive listening of sacred music in bereaved relatives: randomized controlled trial
Experimental group of sung sacred music: 23 families bereaved underwent four sessions of passive listening of sung sacred music (voice and guitar), lasting 20 min. each, once a week;

Experimental group instrumental of sacred music: 23 bereaved family underwent four sessions of passive listening of instrumental sacred music (guitar and flute), lasting 20 min. each, once a week;
To be mourning the death of a loved one (parent or spouse), registered in the Women
Family members who moved to another city during data collection; family members who presented hearing loss during the data collection; family members that present, in the course of data collection, cognitive difficulty expressing one
The mean of the overall scores of Spiritual Well-Being before and after the intervention, were, respectively: 106.4 and 105.5 in Group 1; 103.2 and 105.2 in Group 2; 107.4 and 108.7 in Group 3. For the RWB the means were 57.9 and 56.9 in Group 1, 56.3 and 56.4 in Group 2, 57.4 and 58.1 in Group 3. For the EWB the means were 48.5 and 48.6 in Group 1, 46.9 and 48.9 in Group 2, 49.9 and 50.7 in Group 3.  Although not statistically significant, the results suggest that passive listening to sacred music can improve the spiritual well-being levels of bereaved relatives, and the sung sacred music can support higher levels of spiritual well-being compared to instrumental sacred music.
Considering that spirituality is multidimensional and multifactorial, which hinders their perception and measurement, especially quantitatively as well as the sensitivity of the Spiritual Well-Being Scale the mood of the bereaved family and to the perspective with which they interpreted each of the 20 items of the scale, it is suggested, for future research, the use of a larger sample, or methodological designs - mixed or qualitative, to enable respectively assertive conclusions and generalize the results, and access to the subjectivity inherent to them.
Effects of a technique using apparatus and one using manual technique both for removal of bronchial secretions in hospitalized children.
Effects of a new vibrotherapy instrument 
Will be submitted 20 patients older than 29 days and up to 3 years of age who require respiratory therapy in the first 48 hours of hospitalization, they are characterized by the data in the chart, namely: age, gender, hours of admission and medical diagnosis and then after the approval of the responsible will be submitted both bronchial hygiene maneuver techniques for twenty minutes each, they being the vibrotherapy through a transducer that is placed on the patient
Both genders; aged between 29 days to 3 years old; who require respiratory therapy in the first 48 hours of hospitalization.
Clinical situations that respiratory physiotherapy this contraindicated as bleeding with hemodynamic instability, intracranial pressure higher than 20 mmHg; chest tube; pneumothorax; open wounds and chest skin infections; osteomyelitis of the ribs; osteoporosis and rib fracture.
They will be assessed heart rate, respiratory rate, saturation and volume of secretion. The assessment of peripheral pulse and Periferica of Oxygen Saturation through oximetry (Geratherm®) that is placed on the index finger of the patient. The respiratory rate is obtained by the chest movement counts for one minute. Obtaining these variables will be made before and after the application of the techniques of interest. After the end of the techniques will also be quantified secretion sucked into the vacuum bottle secretion is removed with a syringe needle dee, it will be heavy in high scale accuracy, and deducting the initial weight of the syringe and needle, or be obtained volume and weight of secretion. All tests considering 5% of significance.
Secondary outcomes are expected not
Influence of knee pain on kinematics of knee,ankle and foot during stair descent and immediate effects of an intervention
Influence of Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome on 3D kinematics of knee,ankle and foot during stair descent and immediate effects of an intervention
Intervention Group (n=8)

 Physical Therapy Intervention to improve the knee, ankle and foot movements and promote knee pain relief during stair descent.
The inclusion criterias are pain in the patellofemoral joint region for at least two months during squatting, prolonged sitting, descending or ascending stairs.

Any previous knee surgery, history of patellar dislocation or any other limitations that would influence gait.
Primary outcome found:  A decrease in the peak knee flexion(peak knee flexion before =25,9±6,8 degrees , peak knee flexion after = 20,9±4,4 degrees, Cohen's effect size=0,89, p=0,00).An increase in ankle extension (Extension before=-4,2±3,3 degrees, Extension after = -8,8±4,1 graus, Cohen's effect size=1,24 p=0,00)and decrease in the ankle inversion (Inversion before =-15,0±6,2 degrees, Inversion after = -10,7±4,5 degrees, Cohen's effect size=0,82, p=0,03)and aduction (Aduction before =-7,7±4,2 degrees, Aduction after = -3,4±3,5 degrees, Cohen's effect size=1,11, p=0,03) immediately after intervention . There was an increase in forefoot eversion after physical therapy intervention (Eversion before =2,9±5,2 degrees, Eversion after = 4,1±6,3 degrees, Cohen's effect size=0,20, p=0,01).
No secondary outcome measures were expected.
Walk Training Effect of Treadmill and Video Game About Balance and People Walk With Parkinson
Gait Training Effect in Treadmill and Virtual Reality About Balance and Gait Individuals with Parkinson
free gait training protocol for the control group (CG) with 15 people:
The exercises for the control group will be held in a closed environment, 3 times a week lasting 20 minutes at 4 weeks individually, consisting of low-intensity exercise routines. Heart rate and blood pressure will be monitored before the middle and end of the session. It is carried out by running circuits using as therapeutic resources hula hoops, cones, step, balls, colorful obstacles, horizontal ladders and chairs. To accomplish the tasks the elderly should take hikes overtaking or bypassing obstacles, rise and fall in step, pick up and throw the ball, walk according to horizontal markings on the ground and walk according to the rhythms dictated by the instructor.
idiopathic PD diagnosis in phase 2 or 3 on the scale of HOHEN and Yahr; the absence of any serious comorbidity likely to affect the march; Berg Balance Scale with scores greater than or equal to 46; dementia Absence; condition of maintaining posture in standing position; ability to walk seven meters without assistance; adequate vision (with or without glasses) and listening (with and without the hearing aid); patients with medication.
disabled; diabetes patients not compensated; with severe heart disease; any history of seizures; uncontrolled hypertension.
BERG scale is an instrument validated in Brazil by Miyamoto et al.23 for functional assessment of the balance composed of 14 tasks with five items each and 0-4 score for each task: 0 - is unable to perform the task and 4 - performs the task. The total score ranges from 0- 56 points. The lower the score, the greater the risk for falls; the higher, the better the performance. Its score for fall risk score below 45 points.
outcomes are not expected secondary
Impact of exercise on the urinary control muscles in women with Multiple Sclerosis
Impact of a pelvic floor training program on the quality of life of women with Multiple Sclerosis
Experimental group (n=20): 20 women with Multiple Sclerosis that are going to compose the pelvic floor muscle strengthening program. Control group (n=20): 20 women with Multiple Sclerosis that are going to be submitted to follow up period, without strengthening treatment. Both groups are going to receive pamphlets explaining the function and location of the pelvic floor muscles. This study will present partial blinding, in which the reviewer does not know to which group the participants belong.
Women diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis;  age over 20 years; score on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) lower or equal to 6.5; presence of symptoms of urinary dysfunction for at least six months.
Refusal to participate; exacerbation of symptoms  of Multiple Sclerosis during treatment; cognitive decline;  imposibility to attend the treatment sessions.
Improvement the quality of life index, verified by means of the Repeated Measures Analysis of Variances, with p<0.05 and statistical power of 80%.
Decrease the lower urinary tract symptoms in women with Multiple Sclerosis.
Effectiveness of using teleconsultation in discharge in referral hospital for patients with stable coronary disease
Evaluation of the effectiveness of the use of teleconsultation in qualifying the counter-referral between primary and tertiary care to patients with stable coronary artery disease: a randomized non-inferiority trial
Experimental group: 132 patients with stable ischemic heart disease in high outpatient conditions receive clinical support TelessaúdeRS in high to the health post. The monitoring will be held at 1 month, 4 months and 8 months by telephone contact and a year to face visit. Control group: 132 patients with stable ischemic heart disease in high outpatient conditions will continue in the tertiary hospital according to routine currently in effect. All subjects will be followed for up to one year.
Chronic stable coronary artery disease over a year; functional class I or II at the time of consultation; do not have hospitalization in the last year from cardiovascular disease
Unstable patients who require medication adjustments; Patients who are performing some diagnostic evaluation at query time
Stay in CCS I and II in the post intervention measurement.
Occurrence of instability of the disease at one year, defined as the need to seek emergency care for cardiovascular disease post intervention. 
Effect of comparison of stretching and muscle release technique on posterior stiffness of shoulder in professional handball athletes
Effect of stretching the comparison and mobilize myofascial technique in posterior shoulder tightness in professionals handebol athletes 
Thirty-two athletes, randomly divided into two groups, both groups composed of 16 athletes. In group one was conducted myofascial mobilization of association with the aid of the tractor hook and conventional muscle stretching horizontal adduction. Myofascial mobilization technique will be performed by an experienced professional who has been using the technique for four years. It is controlled by the athlete in prone position on a conventional stretcher, with the humeral region aligned with the acromion by use of an appropriate cushion. It first defines the anatomical areas to be treated by a manual palpation, which takes place the location of the points of tension and pain. After the location of these points is done to remove excess skin, folding it for easy access and prevent inappropriate slip hook handling (Figure 4).
The application is carried out for approximately 15 minutes, the first professional will promote relaxation of the superficial fascia way performing a slip with the hook in the horizontal position proximal to distal (Figure 5). After the surface occurs or until the tissue hyperemia release (Figure 6), sliding is performed more deeply (Figure 7), which is made in short movements to avoid injury to the patient
Inclusion criteria were established most athletes aged; at least two years of practice; reporting pain or not the shoulder; with ADM limitation
Exclusion criteria were established athletes with anatomical abnormalities; recent history (in the past 6 months) of upper limb injuries; subscapular nerve damage and previous shoulder surgery
Increase of the range of movement of internal rotation and horizontal adduction through the hook hook technique and conventional horizontal adduction muscle stretching, evaluated by manual goniometry, after 4 weeks of follow-up
Increase in pitch performance, using the traction hook and conventional horizontal adduction muscle elongation, evaluated by the Bushnell® speed radar, after 4 weeks of follow-up
Haemodynamic effects of manual hyperinflation associated to PEEP in patients with septic shock
Haemodynamic effects of manual hyperinflation associated to PEEP in patients with septic shock
Control/placebo group (13 patients) will hold conventional respiratory physiotherapy with manual chest maneuvers for at least 10 minutes in the supine position. The analysis will be based on the effects of a physiotherapy session. Intervention group (19 patients) will receive physical therapy with chest maneuvers (same as the control group - 10 min), plus maneuvers with manual resuscitator and positive expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 10cmH2O (measured via pressure gauge and engaged in exhalation output of the resuscitator) . The division of the groups was performed blind and randomized by software form, where the evaluator data not know what was the technique used, nor the patient / family will know which group is part. The evaluation of a single intervention, approximately 30minutes will be held (in total) in order to identify if there is hemodynamic deleterious effects and / or ventilatory benefits. This analysis will be done through data collection via a pulmonary artery catheter and electronic monitor, which provide continuous heart rate data; mean arterial pressure; mean blood pressure in the pulmonary artery; pulmonary vascular resistance index; cardiac index; ejection fraction; arterial oxygen saturation; venous oxygen saturation; Rate consumption and oxygen extraction (VO2 and ERO2). The variables of 1 service will be evaluated in three distinct periods (before, immediately after and 30 minutes after the intervention). In both groups, suction endotracheal tube and airways will be held.This analysis variables will be made via specific electronic monitor for use with catheter pulmonary artery.
The double blinding is done because the patient / family will not know which technique will receive during the service, and the evaluator of the variables with the monitor, also will not know which group the patient belongs.
32 adult patients were included with septic shock who require the deployment catheter pulmonary artery; which signed the informed consent form and do not present any exclusion criteria.
Patients under the age of 18 years or over 80 years; pregnancy; acute myocardial infarction 3 months before the study; septic shock secondary to pulmonary disease; severe heart disease; with fractions of less than 30% ejection; and expectancy of less than 24 hours life.
In fact, regardless of physical therapy technique used, there were no hemodynamic changes in the collected variables (heart rate, mean arterial pressure, mean arterial pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance index, cardiac index, ejection fraction)
The data of arterial and venous oxygen saturation demonstrated significant increase independent of the technique used and evaluated during the time factor (after and 30 minutes after the procedure). The oxygen consumption rate (VO2) increased significantly after the procedure. Collected variables and calculated via a pulmonary artery catheter and electronic monitor at the bedside.
Effect of the use of topical dipyrone in tooth sensitivity resulting from in office dental bleaching
Effect of the use of topical dipyrone in tooth sensitivity resulting from in office dental bleaching
Experimental group: For eighty volunteers will be applied on the buccal surface of the teeth of a hemi arch (upper and lower) the desensitizing for topical use containing dipyrone. The desensitizing will be applied in an active manner in the tooth surface for 20 seconds on each tooth with the aid of a disposable brush and will passively to complete 10 minutes. After this period the drug will be removed with a gauze, washed and will start the tooth whitening.

Control group: For the same eighty patients received placebo gel is used topically, but on the other hemi arch (upper and lower). The desensitizing will be applied in an active manner in the tooth surface for 20 seconds on each tooth with the aid of a disposable brush and will passively to complete 10 minutes. After this period the drug will be removed with a gauze, washed and will start the tooth whitening.
Patients older than 18 years are included, with good oral and general health, with the maxillary anterior teeth free restorations and presenting no carious lesion, which possess the color of teeth A2 or darker depending on the color scale Vita Classical (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany) and to agree with the free and informed consent form.
Patients will be excluded who have already performed dental whitening, pregnant patients or lactating, who report tooth sensitivity, severe browning (staining by tetracycline, fluorosis or endodontics), with deleterious habits, people with dental prostheses and orthodontic appliances and any other oral pathology . Although patients will be excluded that present systemic changes such as stomach, heart, kidney and liver problems, diabetes, hypertension or are making continual use of drugs with analgesic and anti-inflammatory or who have allergies to Dipyrone.
Expected outcome: Number of patients that report spontaneous pain in any moment of the bleaching protocol and up to 48 h post-bleaching, through self-report. This number will be presented as percentage of patients with tooth sensitivity and will be named absolute risk of tooth sensitivity.
Expected outcome: The difference in color between the baseline condition and 1 month post-bleaching will be assessed by Vita Classical and Bleachedguide Vita shade guide as well as with the Vita Easyshade spectrophotometer. The data will be presented as means and standard deviations.
Effects of electrical stimulation for reduction of pain, walking ability and respiratory function in kidney donors
Effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation on pain, mobility and pulmonary function in kidney donors
Seventy-four kidney donors will be randomly allocated into 2 groups: Active TENS (n=37) and Placebo TENS (n=37). The transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) will be applied in the surgical incision area for one hour. Frequency will be set at 100 Hz and pulse duration at 100 us. Pulse intensity (amplitude) will be increased until participant report a strong but comfortable paresthesia. In the Placebo TENS group it will be used a modified TENS device that delivers the current for 30 seconds. After this time the amplitude ramps down during 15 seconds until 0 mA. The remaining session keeps without current emission (1 hour). Patients will be followed and submitted to only one application of active or placebo TENS. The application will be performed on the first day of the postoperative period. Evaluations will be held before and after the intervention of TENS. The double-blinding will be done by two evaluators involved with the study, which were trained to perform the procedures in this study. Evaluator 1 will be responsible for the evaluation of pulmonary function (respiratory muscle strength and vital capacity), mobility and assessment of pain intensity in all patients in the study. Evaluator 2 will be responsible for administering TENS in all patients in the study. Only Evaluator 2 will know if the patient received the active or placebo TENS. Both Evaluator 1 and the patients will be blinded to the mode of application of TENS. Evaluator 2 will instruct patients not to report their perceptions during the TENS administration to the evaluator conducting the assessments

Kidney donors submitted to the nefrectomy; aged between 18 and 70 years old and of either sex; Pain intensity at rest greater than or equal to 2 and less than or equal to 7 on a numeric verbal pain scale (0-10)
Previous TENS experience; Need for surgical intervention on another organ in addition to the kidney
A 20% decrease of pain intensity in the active TENS group, compared with placebo TENS group, after kidney donation surgery in humans, measured by numeric rating scale. It is expected that numeric rating scale shows lower values after active TENS application
It is expected an increase of about 10% in the respiratory muscle strength (maximal inspiratory pressure and maximal expiratory pressure), vital capacity and functional ability after active TENS application. Respiratory muscle strength (maximal inspiratory pressure and maximal expiratory pressure)will be assesssed with a manovacuometer. Vital capacity will be assessed with a spirometer and functional ability with the Iowa Gait Test
The influence of the pilates method on bone health in older women
The influence of the method pilates on functional capacity and quality of life and bone turnover in elderly women
In this study, two groups of women, one underwent an exercise program based on Pilates (PEBMP) and the other not, were compared before and after the PEBMP, as the parameters related to functional capacity, quality of life and the markers of bone turnover. The 20 participants in the Pilates group were assessed before and after 20 weeks of completion of the PEBMP. The 20 patients not submitted to PEBMP (control group - 
Female participants; of the Open University of the Third Age; aged 60 or older who do not have serious illnesses and who agree and sign the informed consent form.
Decompensated diabetes, severe hypertension, chronic renal failure, liver disease, sequela of stroke, malnutrition, cancer, hyperparathyroidism, hyperthyroidism, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Serum CTX were not different between the groups, both before (p = 0.991) and after PEBMP (p = 1.000). There was also no significant difference between the two moments, both in the control group (p = 0.996) and in Pilates (p = 1.000). The serum levels of BSAP were not different between the two groups, both before (p = 0.999) and after (p = 0.658) of PEBMP. There was also no significant difference between both times, both in the control group (p = 0.883) and in Pilates (p = 0.992).
After PEBMP, Pilates group showed better balance than the control (p <0.0001) and significant improvements in balance compared to before the PEBMP (p = 0.0022). This improvement did not occur with the control group (p> 0.05). The Pilates group showed statistically significant increased flexibility after performing the exercise program (p = 0.0027), which did not occur with the control group (p> 0.05). After PEBMP, Pilates, and the control groups were significantly different for flexibility (p = 0.001). Regarding the SF-36 questionnaire, the Control and Pilates groups did not differ regarding the functional ability to score, prior to the PEBMP (p> 0.05). After the program, the Pilates group had better scores than the control (p = 0.0003) and a significant improvement in functional capacity compared to before the PEBMP (p = 0.0232). As for the physical, emotional and vitality after PEBMP, Pilates group had higher scores than the control (p = 0.0009, p = 0.0046 and p = 0.0110, respectively). As for the emotional evaluation, after PEBMP, Pilates group had higher scores than the control (p = 0.0111). Regarding the functional and complete assessments, the Pilates group showed improvement score (p = 0.0220 and p = 0.0171, respectively) after PEBMP, and at that time, higher score than the control group (p <0.0001 and p = 0.0001, respectively). There were no other statistically significant differences between groups or between the evaluated times.
Effect of pelvic floor muscles training on sexual function of postmenopausal women - Randomized controlled trial
Effect of pelvic floor muscles training on sexual function of postmenopausal women - Randomized controlled trial
Group intensive training of the pelvic floor muscles supervised twice a week, with guidance from conducting home exercise every day. Group consists of 20 women. Protocol: 4 sets of 10 maximal voluntary contractions sustained for up to 6 seconds followed with an interval of 5 6/2 rapid contractions. The series were performed in the supine position, fours, sitting and standing.
Women Postmenopausal with a maximum of five years of menopause; Women should have the ability to contract the MAP; having sex, which was defined when there is penetration of the penis into the vagina in the past four weeks; women may not submit diabetes; may not submit thyroid diseases; may not present hyperprolactinemia, may not present genital prolapse (above grade 1)
Women who are intolerant (pain, allergy gel or latex condom or other discomfort) the examination of the MAP function; that denying answer the questionnaires in phases that will be applied.
Improvement of female sexual function assessed by questionnaire Sexual Function Index Female (IFSF). This questionnaire provides a score of 0-36 where the higher the score better sexual function. It will also be used cohort value below 26.5 for determination of sexual dysfunction.
Improved function of the pelvic floor muscles evaluated by modified Oxford scale.
Effect of almond consumption baru on the levels of cholesterol, free radicals and inflammation in overweight women
Effect of almond consumption baru on the lipid profile, oxidative stress and inflammatory women overweight
Experimental group: 20 overweight or obese women received a daily portion corresponding to 20 g / day of almond baru (14-16 units). Placebo group: 22 overweight or obese women received 800 mg / day of maltodextrin. Portions baru almonds or maltodextrin (placebo) were offered in randomized order, in a period of 8 weeks.
Female volunteers; diagnosis of overweight or obesity; aged between 20 and 60 years, who receive care in outpatient clinics of general nutrition and nutrition Endocrinology, Hospital das Clinicas, Federal University of Goiás
Volunteer smokers, pregnant or lactating; volunteers with prescription diets for weight reduction; with Body Mass Index below 25 kg/m2 or 40 kg/m2; diagnosis of autoimmune diseases, hepatic or renal diseases; history of drug abuse or alcohol; use of dietary supplements; volunteers who are receiving medications a week before the study or during the performance; that are not available to participate in all stages of the study.
Reduction of low density lipoproteins concentration (LDL) after eight weeks of intervention, verified through the analysis of blood sample after fasting for twelve hours a colorimetric enzymatic method using the Friedewald equation (1972) through finding of a 10% variation in measurements pre and post intervention.
Increased high density lipoprotein levels (HDL) levels after eight weeks of intervention, verified by analyzing the blood sample after fasting for twelve hours a colorimetric enzymatic method, by observation of a 7% variation in pre and post intervention measurements.
Blood pressure increase during strength exercise conducted with different loads in people with high blood pressure treated with amlodipine.
Intra-arterial blood pressure responses during resistance exercise of different intensities in hypertensive patients treated with calcium channel antagonist.
10 Hypertensive subjects evaluated in  crossover design, studied under two different oral therapies, administered for 4 weeks (random order and double-blinded).
Therapies: amlodipine (5 mg, once a day), Placebo (once day).
Essential hypertension
Men and Women
Individuals with obesity (body mass index greater than or equal to 35 kg/m2),
Individuals with diabetes (fasting glycemia greater than or equal to 126 mg / dl),
Blood pressure response during exercise, assessed by the technique of intra-arterial pressure at rest and during resistance exercise on use of placebo and amlodipine.
-
Survey of oral health conditions in a city of approximately 100,000 inhabitants
Epidemiological survey in a city of approximately 100,000 inhabitants
The intervention consists of an oral clinical examination performed by trained dentists who made the observation and palpation of the oral cavity structures, and their respective auxiliary oral health, noted in a prefabricated table epidemiological indices of oral health found in each patient: DMF (mean decayed permanent teeth missing and filled), dmft (mean decayed and lost deciduous teeth), endodontic and orthodontic needs, trauma, mucosal lesions, previous contact with topical application of fluoride, visible periodontal disease, presence tartar, white spot lesions and fluorosis. The sample consisted of 754 people, each patient was examined only once and randomly selected within the research ages, of both genders. The index-age recommended by the WHO (World Health Organization) were used and 125 persons 0-36 months 124 people in five years, 123 people of 12 years, 127 people from 15 to 19 years, 128 people 35 to 44 years and 127 people 65 to 74 years.
Volunteers were included in both genders within the 0 age-index to 36 months, 5 years, 12 years, 15 to 19 years, 35-44 years and 65-74 years agreed to participate and signed the Informed Consent (Term Informed Consent)
They excluded those who, for some reason, did not sign the TLCE (Informed Consent and Informed) or did not wish to participate and those who did not have any age surveyed
Find the oral health status of a population in a city of approximately 100,000 inhabitants, through an epidemiological survey consisting of a visual-tactile oral examination by dentists trained in a sample of the population, to compare the results with surveys earlier and check the oral health status of the population and create a data base that serve for planning and evaluation of health programs for oral health
Find the DMFT (mean decayed permanent teeth missing and filled) and dmft (average of deciduous teeth decayed and filled), number of teeth with endodontic needs of people with orthodontic needs, number of teeth that have suffered trauma, number of lesions mucosal found, the number of people who have had previous contact with topical application of fluoride, many people with periodontal visible, tartar and fluorosis, and number of teeth with white spot lesions caused by decay, using an epidemiological survey. The values obtained will be compared with previous surveys to check the oral health status of the population studied
Efectiveness evaluation of Atraumatic Restorative Treatment with modified cement in children
Evaluation of cost-benefit of Atraumatic Restorative Treatment with glass ionomer cement added cellulose nanocrystals in Brazilian children

Experimental group: 123 atraumatic class I restorations using the conventional glass ionomer cement added cellulose nanocrystals.
Control group: 123 atraumatic class I restorations using a high-viscosity GIC (gold standard).
Good general health; Presence of at least two vitals primary molars, without painful symptomatology
Uncooperative patients and/or with neurological problems
Scores 0, 1 and 7, evaluated by the criteria of atraumatic restorations assessment proposed by Frencken, after 12 months of the realization of the restorations.
None.
The effect of medications to combat the generated sensitivity after the tooth whitening office
Effectiveness of two drugs in controlling sensitivity generated by office tooth whitening: A clinical, randomized, blinded trial
Patients will be randomly selected and divided form in 7 groups of 10 patients each:

* G1: Control group with whitened teeth without desensitizing nano p; no placebo intake and using ordinary toothpaste (brushing for 21 days: 7 days before and 14 after the bleaching treatment)
Individuals must be at least 18 years old, doesn
Pregnant women will be excluded or breastfeeding; people with discolored teeth caused by tetracycline; with fluorosis; hyperplasia; endodontic treatment or needing root canal treatment; and parafunctional habits. People who have any condition that may cause sensitivity such as recession or exposure of dentin are excluded from this study to minimize confusion of experimental variables or side effects of bleaching. Participants who report a health problem history in the stomach; heart; kidney; or liver or participants using any continuous drug with anti inflammatory action are also excluded from the study.
The association of analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs; with or without desensitizing does reduce or eliminate the sensitivity generated by the office tooth bleaching. Will be evaluated after the verification of the data distribution (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). Later, you run a parametric or non-parametric test followed by an appropriate post-test.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
Assessment in humans of aesthetics and functions of common implants restored with crowns and porcelain metal crowns and porcelain only
Comparative analysis of aesthetic and functional parameters of implant abutments using ceramic and metallic
1) Surgical procedures: For the 35 individuals selected, the placement of surgical implants (Porous Master line, hexagonal - Connection Implant Systems, Arujá / SP, Brazil) will be conducted in accordance with the standards of biosecurity and receive drug therapy pre and post-operative and post-surgical guidelines. The guide will assist in surgical placement of implants, previously defined. The time required for osseointegration is awaited, three months to five months for the mandible and the maxilla. 2) Radiographic Procedures: There will be four digital periapical radiographs of each patient: 1) immediately after implant placement, 2) after the osseointegration period (three months to five months for the mandible and maxilla), 3) three months after installation prosthesis and 4) five months after installation of the prosthesis; Of the sixty initial radiographs (T1) and sixty taken after a period of osseointegration (T2) will be chosen 14 of each group, which will feature a range of 10 to 20 degrees of vertical angle and 10 º horizontal, to be applied the technique of digital subtraction radiography (SRD group). All digital radiographs will be subject to verification of loss or gain bone around the implant, using subjective visual analysis. 3) Prosthetic procedures: After radiography, the surgeries will be performed for the reopening of the implants. Completed the period of soft tissue healing, the crowns will be made and / or fixed prostheses. Patients will be divided into two groups: GAT - Group Ti abutments prefabricated implants in 30 / 1; GAZ - group zirconia abutments prefabricated implants in the thirty remaining. The abutments will be to varying external hexagon only possible angle and diameter of the platform used. Crowns and / or fixed prosthesis group on coping GAT will be made of metal (Precision System Connection ®) with application of ceramic, the GAZ Group, the prefabricated abutment in zirconia is prepared manually. Thus, the abutments of both groups will be prefabricated. However, the copings of the GAZ Group will be made of zirconia by CAD / CAM system (Precision), unlike GAT copings group that will be prefabricated. On all glass-ceramic copings will be applied to low melting nanofluorapatita obtaining then, metal-free prostheses and conventional.
of both genders, 
without regard to race, 
smoking, 
with systemic diseases, 
Identify an aesthetic best rehabilitated with implants in the pillars and crowns with zirconia copings made by CAD CAM system, in relation to conventional metal-ceramic crowns. The evaluations will follow the parameters: Evaluation of clinical criteria for success "1" - the absence of persistent subjective complaints such as pain, foreign body sensation, and / or paresthesia, "2" - the absence of recurring peri-implant infection with suppuration and, "3" - lack of mobility.  Evaluation of the index card as a visual scale, where "0" - no plaque deposits, "1" - sliding plate visible only after the probe on the free surface of the marginal gingiva of the implant, "2" - plate clinically visible and , "3" - plate abundant.  Evaluation of the sulcus bleeding index scores using "0" - no bleeding when the tip of the periodontal probe is passed along the gingival margin to the implant, "1" - isolated bleeding points visible, "2" - bleeding forms a confluent red line on the shore and, "3" - profuse bleeding.  Aesthetic evaluation of the index according to the following criteria: relevance, inclusion of peri-implant soft tissues relevant specific parameters inherent in the restoration, establishment of clinical acceptability, ease of use and reproducibility. For aesthetic content will be used the following scores: PES, which evaluates the gum tissue around the implant and WES, which will assess part of the prosthetic crown that emerges from the peri-implant tissues. For the PES will be used the following scores: "1" - corresponds to mesial papilla, "2" - corresponds to the distal papilla; "3" - curvature of the cervical buccal mucosa, "4" - level / height of the vestibular and cervical mucosa; "5" - root convexity, color and texture of the tissue over the implant. For the WES scores will be used for aesthetic parameters of the crowns: "1" - corresponds to the shape of the tooth, "2" - corresponds to the volume, "3" - color "4" - the texture of the facial and cervical face, "5 "- translucency and characterization of the five parameters described coroa.Os aciam for both PES and to WES, under optimal conditions, will result in a score of 10, the threshold of clinical acceptability is set to" 6 ". For evaluation of peri-implant tissues will be used a millimeter Hu-Friedy probe to measure the depth of the peri-implant tissues as follows: DIM - distance from the shoulder (platform) of the implant to the gingival margin; PPD - drilling depth of peri-implant and, PAL - level of peri-implant insertion, which corresponds to the sum of DIM + PPD.  Expected results for each parameter used: clinical success (scores 1, 2 and 3), index card (score 0), the sulcus bleeding index (score 0), PES and WES aesthetic index (scores equal to or greater from the point of acceptability of 6), peri-implant tissues measured with millimetric probe Hu-Friedy have a PAL ranging from 4 to 7 mm.
Bone gain around implants assessed by radiographic analysis based on the Likert scale with the aid of digital subtraction radiography. Expected to be observed that the initial radiograph (T1) in relation to the second radiograph (T2) show a clear picture that there was bone formation around the implant platform (site mesial and distal site), and the overall image quality excellent for purposes of evaluating change or gained bone around the implant platform, and that the appraiser would have confidence in making opinion about gain or bone loss around the implant platform based on this image (Likert Scale).
Massage effect on specific points of the feet on the skin of people presenting risk of injury
Effect of foot reflexology on the tissue integrity of feet of people with 
The 78 eligible participants are randomized into two groups: intervention group, with 40 participants; and control group, with 38 participants.
The participants of the Intervention Group receiving the foot reflexology (also known as reflexotherapy of feet), which consists of a massage at specific points of the feet. It is applied two sessions of foot reflexology per week, for two months, totaling 16 sessions. The application mode consist in the stimulus, with the fingers in specific points of the feet. After putting on disposable gloves, the person responsible for implementing of the intervention pressing, with your finger or thumb, each specific point of feet.
It is accompanied by the endocrinology service data collection site.
Of age or above 18 years.
Presence of thrombosis in the lower limbs.
Presence of amputation of the lower limbs.
Tissue integrity preservation of feet of people with the nursing diagnosis "Integrity Risk of Impaired Skin" (proposed by the taxonomy Nursing Diagnoses Classification - NANDA-I), verified by the score of nursing outcome "Tissue integrity: skin and mucous membranes" and scores of its indicators (proposed by the taxonomy Nursing Outcomes Classification - NOC), from the identification of significant differences between the Intervention Group and the Control Group in the post-intervention period.
Secondary outcomes are not expected.
